I'M GWEN IFILL. >>
Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
>> Woodruff: AND
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WOODRUFF. >> Ifill:
ON THE NEWSHOUR
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
TONIGHT: A WAR AGAINST CULTURE.
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS EXECUTE
ONE OF THE PROTECTORS OF SYRIA'S
ONE OF THE PROTECTORS OF
SYRIA'S ANCIENT PAST.
ANCIENT PAST. >> Woodruff:
FIRES ENGULF THE
>> Woodruff: FIRES ENGULF
THE PACIFIC NORTHWEST.
PACIFIC NORTHWEST. THEY
SCORCH MILLIONS OF ACRES,
THEY SCORCH MILLIONS OF ACRES,
PROMPTING THE NATIONAL GUARD AND
EVEN THE ARMY TO JOIN THE FIGHT.
>> Ifill: PLUS, CONTINUING OUR
SERIES ON THE CANDIDATES RUNNING
SERIES ON THE CANDIDATES
RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT.
FOR PRESIDENT. WE SIT
DOWN WITH OHIO'S
WE SIT DOWN WITH OHIO'S
REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR JOHN KASICH.
>> YOU GOT TO HAVE SOLUTIONS,
AND YOU GOT TO SHOW PEOPLE THAT
AND YOU GOT TO SHOW PEOPLE
THAT YOU HAVE A RECORD OF
YOU HAVE A RECORD
OF ACHIEVEMENT.
ACHIEVEMENT. PEOPLE
DON'T WANT ANY MORE
PEOPLE DON'T WANT
ANY MORE PROMISES.
PROMISES. THEY WANT
TO KNOW THAT IT IS
THEY WANT TO KNOW THAT
IT IS GOING TO HAPPEN.
GOING TO HAPPEN. THEY
WANT TO KNOW THAT YOU CAN
THEY WANT TO KNOW THAT YOU
CAN DELIVER THE MAIL.
DELIVER THE MAIL. >>
Woodruff: AND, ENDING MERIT
>> Woodruff: AND, ENDING MERIT
SCHOLARSHIPS FOR HIGHER
SCHOLARSHIPS FOR
HIGHER EDUCATION.
EDUCATION. WHY ONE
COLLEGE PROVIDES AID
WHY ONE COLLEGE PROVIDES AID
ONLY TO THE STUDENTS WHO ARE
ONLY TO THE STUDENTS
WHO ARE MOST IN NEED.
MOST IN NEED. >> FRANKLIN
AND MARSHALL WAS A
>> FRANKLIN AND MARSHALL WAS A
TERRIBLE COLLEGE WHEN IT CAME TO
TERRIBLE COLLEGE WHEN IT CAME
TO ECONOMIC DIVERSITY, THEY
ECONOMIC DIVERSITY, THEY
RECOGNIZED IT, AND WERE SHAMED.
DECIDED THAT THEY WERE GOING TO
DECIDED THAT THEY WERE
GOING TO DO BETTER.
DO BETTER. >> Ifill:
ALL THAT AND MORE ON
>> Ifill: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: WALL STREET GOT THE
SHAKES TODAY AS DEVELOPMENTS
IN THE U.S. AND ABROAD SOWED
IN THE U.S. AND
ABROAD SOWED DOUBTS.
DOUBTS. THE FEDERAL
RESERVE GAVE OUT
THE FEDERAL RESERVE GAVE OUT
MIXED SIGNALS ON RAISING
INTEREST RATES NEXT MONTH,
CHINESE MARKETS WERE HIT BY WILD
SWINGS AND OIL PRICES PLUNGED
AGAIN, HURTING ENERGY STOCKS.
IN THE END, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST 162
POINTS TO CLOSE BELOW 17,390.
THE NASDAQ FELL 40 POINTS AND
THE NASDAQ FELL 40 POINTS
AND THE S&P 500 SLID 17.
THE S&P 500 SLID 17. >>
Ifill: IN THAILAND, POLICE
>> Ifill: IN THAILAND, POLICE
EXPANDED THEIR MANHUNT IN
OFFERED A REWARD WORTH NEARLY
OFFERED A REWARD WORTH
NEARLY $30,000.
$30,000. JONATHAN
MILLER OF INDEPENDENT
JONATHAN MILLER OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS FROM
TELEVISION NEWS
REPORTS FROM BANGKOK.
BANGKOK. >> Reporter:
A POLICE E-FIT
>> Reporter: A POLICE E-FIT
SKETCH OF THE SUSPECTED BOMBER
WHO DECLARED WAR ON BANGKOK AND
WHO SET THE WHOLE CITY ON EDGE.
A THAI COURT'S NOW ISSUED A
WARRANT FOR THE ARREST OF THE
MAN IN THE YELLOW T-SHIRT, WHO
PLACED HIS BLACK BACKPACK ON A
BENCH ON THE ERAWAN SHRINE TWO
BENCH ON THE ERAWAN
SHRINE TWO NIGHTS AGO.
NIGHTS AGO. THE WARRANT
DESCRIBES HIM AS AN
THE WARRANT DESCRIBES HIM AS AN
UNIDENTIFIED FOREIGNER, WANTED
UNIDENTIFIED FOREIGNER,
WANTED MEDITATED MURDER.
MEDITATED MURDER. WITH
FEW SOLID LEADS, AND NO
WITH FEW SOLID LEADS, AND NO
CLEAR MOTIVE TO GO ON, THE
NATIONAL POLICE CHIEF OFFERED
ONE MILLION BAHT FOR INFORMATION
THAT COULD LEAD TO HIS CAPTURE.
"HE DIDN'T DO IT ALONE," HE
"HE DIDN'T DO IT ALONE,"
HE SAID, "THAT'S FOR SURE.
SAID, "THAT'S FOR SURE.
IT'S A NETWORK."
IT'S A NETWORK." WATCH
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN "YELLOW
WATCH WHAT HAPPENS WHEN
"YELLOW T-SHIRT" ARRIVES.
T-SHIRT" ARRIVES. A MAN
IN RED VACATES HIS SEAT
A MAN IN RED VACATES HIS SEAT
FOR HIM, AND STANDS WITH ANOTHER
MAN-- WEARING WHE-- ITRIGHT IN
MAN-- WEARING WHE--
ITRIGHT IN FRONT OF HIM.
FRONT OF HIM. THEN, ONCE
THE BACKPACK'S BEEN
THEN, ONCE THE BACKPACK'S BEEN
PLACED, BOTH LEAVE THE SHRINE,
SECONDS BEFORE THE PRIME
SECONDS BEFORE THE
PRIME SUSPECT.
SUSPECT. "RED" AND
"WHITE" ARE NOW
"RED" AND "WHITE" ARE
NOW WANTED, TOO.
WANTED, TOO. THE OPEN
AIR SHRINE ON THE BUSY
THE OPEN AIR SHRINE ON THE BUSY
STREET CORNER WHERE 22 PEOPLE
DIED REOPENED FOR BUSINESS AT
DIED REOPENED FOR BUSINESS
AT 8:00 THIS MORNING.
8:00 THIS MORNING. SOME
THAIS, THOUGH, PREFERRED TO
SOME THAIS, THOUGH, PREFERRED
TO PRAY FROM AFAR.
PRAY FROM AFAR. THERE
ARE GHOSTS HERE.
THERE ARE GHOSTS HERE. IN THE
PAST TEN YEARS, THAILAND
IN THE PAST TEN YEARS, THAILAND
HAS HAD MORE THAN ITS FAIR SHARE
HAS HAD MORE THAN ITS
FAIR SHARE OF TROUBLE.
OF TROUBLE. BUT THE
COUNTRY HAS ALWAYS
BUT THE COUNTRY HAS
ALWAYS PROVED RESILIENT.
PROVED RESILIENT. AND
SO HAVE THE TOURISTS.
AND SO HAVE THE TOURISTS. THIS
TIME THOUGH, IT JUST FEELS
THIS TIME THOUGH, IT
JUST FEELS DIFFERENT.
DIFFERENT. DOWN HERE
IN THE KHAO SAN ROAD,
DOWN HERE IN THE KHAO SAN ROAD,
BANGKOK'S BACKPACKER CENTRAL,
IT'S MUCH MORE SUBDUED THAN
USUAL AND PEOPLE ARE GENUINELY
USUAL AND PEOPLE ARE
GENUINELY SCARED.
SCARED. "THE MAN IN
THE YELLOW T-SHIRT"
"THE MAN IN THE YELLOW T-SHIRT"
IS WHAT EVERYBODY'S TALKING
IS WHAT EVERYBODY'S
TALKING ABOUT.
ABOUT. AND EVERYBODY
KNOWS THAT HE'S
AND EVERYBODY KNOWS THAT
HE'S STILL OUT THERE.
STILL OUT THERE. THAILAND
IS A COUNTRY IN NEED OF
THAILAND IS A COUNTRY IN NEED
OF REASSURANCE RIGHT NOW.
REASSURANCE RIGHT NOW. BUT
TONIGHT, THERE IS NONE.
BUT TONIGHT, THERE IS NONE.
AMID TALK OF INTELLIGENCE
FAILURES, IT SEEMS NO ONE HAS
ANY IDEA YET WHY WHAT HAPPENED
ANY IDEA YET WHY WHAT
HAPPENED HERE HAPPENED.
HERE HAPPENED. THREAT
LEVEL HIGH, ANXIETY LEVEL
THREAT LEVEL HIGH, ANXIETY
LEVEL EVEN HIGHER.
EVEN HIGHER. >> Woodruff:
IN TURKEY, TWO MORE
>> Woodruff: IN TURKEY, TWO MORE
ATTACKS TODAY ADDED TO A GROWING
ATTACKS TODAY ADDED TO A
GROWING WAVE OF VIOLENCE.
WAVE OF VIOLENCE. AT LEAST
EIGHT SOLDIERS WERE
AT LEAST EIGHT SOLDIERS WERE
KILLED WHEN KURDISH REBELS SET
OFF A ROADSIDE BOMB IN THE
OFF A ROADSIDE BOMB
IN THE SOUTHEAST.
SOUTHEAST. EARLIER,
GUNMEN THREW A GRENADE
EARLIER, GUNMEN THREW A GRENADE
AND FIRED SHOTS OUTSIDE AN
OTTOMAN-ERA PALACE IN ISTANBUL.
ONE OFFICER WAS SLIGHTLY
ONE OFFICER WAS
SLIGHTLY WOUNDED.
WOUNDED. TWO PEOPLE
WERE ARRESTED.
TWO PEOPLE WERE ARRESTED. >>
Ifill: A VOTE IN GERMANY'S
>> Ifill: A VOTE IN GERMANY'S
PARLIAMENT HAS CLEARED THE WAY
FOR A THIRD BAILOUT FOR GREECE.
LAWMAKERS OVERWHELMINGLY
APPROVED A PACKAGE OF $95
BILLION IN LOANS TODAY.
BILLION IN LOANS TODAY. THE
GERMAN FINANCE MINISTER SAID
THE GERMAN FINANCE MINISTER SAID
IT'S IN THE BEST INTERESTS OF
IT'S IN THE BEST
INTERESTS OF EUROPE.
EUROPE. >> (translated
): IN FACT, THE
>> (translated): IN
FACT, THE GREEK GOVERNMENT HAS
MADE
GREEK GOVERNMENT HAS MADE
POSITIVE AND FUNDAMENTAL CHANGES
IN THE LAST WEEKS AND IT
THEREFORE WOULD BE IRRESPONSIBLE
TO NOT USE THIS OPPORTUNITY FOR
A NEW BEGINNING IN GREECE.
A NEW BEGINNING IN GREECE. THE
CHANCE HAS BEEN GIVEN TO THE
THE CHANCE HAS BEEN GIVEN TO THE
GREEKS AND THEY ALONE DECIDE IF
GREEKS AND THEY ALONE
DECIDE IF THEY USE IT.
THEY USE IT. >> Ifill:
UNDER THE BAILOUT
>> Ifill: UNDER THE BAILOUT
DEAL, GREECE MUST UNDERTAKE A
SERIES OF ECONOMIC REFORMS,
INCLUDING SPENDING CUTS AND TAX
INCLUDING SPENDING CUTS
AND TAX INCREASES.
INCREASES. >> Woodruff:
BACK IN THE U.S.,
>> Woodruff: BACK IN THE U.S.,
THE FORMER SPOKESMAN FOR THE
SUBWAY CHAIN, JARED FOGLE, WILL
PLEAD GUILTY TO HAVING SEX WITH
MINORS AND RECEIVING CHILD PORN.
THE AGREEMENT WAS ANNOUNCED
TODAY IN FEDERAL COURT IN
TODAY IN FEDERAL COURT
IN INDIANAPOLIS.
INDIANAPOLIS. FOGLE'S
ACTUAL PLEA WILL COME AT
FOGLE'S ACTUAL PLEA WILL
COME AT A LATER DATE.
A LATER DATE. UNDER THE
DEAL, HE PAYS $100,000
UNDER THE DEAL, HE PAYS $100,000
TO EACH OF 14 VICTIMS, AND
SERVES UP TO 12 AND A HALF YEARS
SERVES UP TO 12 AND A
HALF YEARS IN PRISON.
IN PRISON. >> Ifill:
AND FORMER OHIO
>> Ifill: AND FORMER OHIO
CONGRESSMAN LOUIS STOKES HAS
DIED IN CLEVELAND, OF LUNG AND
DIED IN CLEVELAND, OF
LUNG AND BRAIN CANCER.
BRAIN CANCER. HE WAS THE
FIRST BLACK MEMBER OF
HE WAS THE FIRST BLACK MEMBER OF
CONGRESS FROM OHIO, AND SERVED
15 TERMS FROM 1969 TO 1999.
STOKES GAINED NATIONAL ATTENTION
CHAIRING THE SELECT COMMITTEE ON
CHAIRING THE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON ASSASSINATIONS IN THE LATE
ASSASSINATIONS IN
THE LATE '70'S.
'70'S. IT INVESTIGATED
THE MURDERS OF
IT INVESTIGATED THE MURDERS OF
PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND MARTIN
PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
LUTHER KING, JR. LOUIS
STOKES WAS 90 YEARS OLD.
LOUIS STOKES WAS 90 YEARS OLD.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR: ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS WAGE WAR AGAINST
SYRIA'S ANCIENT CULTURE,
UNPACKING THE WAVE OF CRITICISM
OVER AN IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL AND
OVER AN IRAN NUCLEAR
DEAL AND MUCH MORE.
MUCH MORE. >> Ifill:
THE WORLD LEARNED OF
>> Ifill: THE WORLD LEARNED OF
ANOTHER BRUTAL ISLAMIC STATE
ANOTHER BRUTAL ISLAMIC
STATE KILLING IN SYRIA.
KILLING IN SYRIA. THIS
TIME, THE VICTIM AN
THIS TIME, THE VICTIM AN
ARCHAEOLOGIST WHO REPORTEDLY
REFUSED TO GIVE UP HIS COUNTRY'S
REFUSED TO GIVE UP HIS
COUNTRY'S FAMED ARTIFACTS.
FAMED ARTIFACTS. ALEX
THOMSON OF INDEPENDENT
ALEX THOMSON OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS HAS THIS REPORT.
A WARNING: SOME OF THE IMAGES
A WARNING: SOME OF THE
IMAGES MAY BE DISTURBING.
MAY BE DISTURBING. >>
Reporter: YOU CANNOT SPEAK OF
>> Reporter: YOU CANNOT SPEAK
OF PALMYRA, THEY SAY, WITHOUT
PALMYRA, THEY SAY, WITHOUT
SPEAKING OF KHALED ASAAD, THE
FATHER OF THIS PLACE WHO FOR 50
YEARS RESEARCHED AND WELCOMED
THE PEOPLE OF THE WORLD OF EVERY
CREED AND COLOR TO WHAT WAS FOR
THEM A WORLD HERITAGE SITE.
FOR KHALED ASAAD, IT WAS HIS
FOR KHALED ASAAD, IT WAS
HIS HOME, HIS LIFE.
HOME, HIS LIFE. HIS
TRADEMARK SPECTACLES STILL
HIS TRADEMARK SPECTACLES STILL
PEERING INTO AND UNEARTHING
PALMYRA'S MYSTERIES IN HIS 82ND
PALMYRA'S MYSTERIES
IN HIS 82ND YEAR.
YEAR. >> HE WAS VERY
PASSIONATE ABOUT
>> HE WAS VERY PASSIONATE ABOUT
PALMYRA AS A CITY AND AS A
ARCHEOLOGICAL SITE AND I URGED
HIM TO LEAVE ACTUALLY TOWARDS
WHEN ISIL TOOK CONTROL OF THE
WHEN ISIL TOOK CONTROL OF
THE CITY AND HE REFUSED.
CITY AND HE REFUSED. >>
Reporter: AND THAT IS THE
>> Reporter: AND THAT IS THE
WORLD RENOWNED SCHOLAR, THE 82-
YEAR-OLD MAN WHOSE BEHEADED BODY
WAS LEFT HANGING FROM A LAMP
WAS LEFT HANGING
FROM A LAMP POST.
POST. THE PLACARD ACCUSES HIM OF
THE PLACARD ACCUSES HIM OF
SUPPORTING IDOLATRY AND THE
SUPPORTING IDOLATRY AND
THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT.
SYRIAN GOVERNMENT. ISIS
FIGHTERS CAME FOR HIM A
ISIS FIGHTERS CAME FOR HIM A
MONTH AGO ALONG WITH HIS SON.
MONTH AGO ALONG WITH HIS
SON. HE WAS TORTURED.
HE WAS TORTURED. THEY
WANTED TO KNOW WHERE THE
THEY WANTED TO KNOW WHERE THE
ARTIFACTS FROM THE SITE HAD BEEN
ARTIFACTS FROM THE
SITE HAD BEEN HIDDEN.
HIDDEN. ISIS SELLS
THEM ON TO FUND ITS
ISIS SELLS THEM ON
TO FUND ITS WAR.
WAR. KHALED ASAAD
APPARENTLY TOLD
KHALED ASAAD APPARENTLY
TOLD THEM NOTHING.
THEM NOTHING. IN A
STATEMENT, GIVEN TO CHANNEL
IN A STATEMENT, GIVEN TO
CHANNEL 4 NEWS, ISIS SAID:
ISIS TOOK PALMYRA IN MAY. LOCALS
REMAINED AND LOOKED ON AS
LOCALS REMAINED AND LOOKED ON
AS THEY TOOK OVER, BUT THE U.N.
THEY TOOK OVER, BUT THE U.N.
SAYS ABOUT 70,000 OTHERS HAVE
SAYS ABOUT 70,000
OTHERS HAVE FLED.
FLED. BY JUNE, ISIS
HAD VOWED NOT TO
BY JUNE, ISIS HAD VOWED NOT TO
DESTROY THE VAST ROMAN RUINS.
INSTEAD THEY SET TO DETONATING
INSTEAD THEY SET TO
DETONATING PRE-ROMAN SITES.
PRE-ROMAN SITES. A MONTH
LATER, IN JULY, THEY
A MONTH LATER, IN JULY,
THEY WERE USING THE ROMAN
WERE USING THE ROMAN
AMPHITHEATER, NOT WRECKING IT,
AMPHITHEATER, NOT WRECKING
IT, USING IT FOR MASS PUBLIC
USING IT FOR MASS
PUBLIC EXECUTIONS.
EXECUTIONS. >> Ifill:
JOINING ME NOW TO TALK
>> Ifill: JOINING ME NOW TO TALK
ABOUT KHALID AL-ASSAD AND HIS
WORK IS HIS FORMER COLLEAGUE,
AMR-AL AZM, A PROFESSOR MIDDLE
EASTERN HISTORY AND ANTHROPOLOGY
AT SHAWNEE STATE UNIVERSITY IN
AT SHAWNEE STATE
UNIVERSITY IN OHIO.
OHIO. HE JOINS US
TONIGHT FROM PRAGUE
HE JOINS US TONIGHT
FROM PRAGUE VIA SKYPE.
VIA SKYPE. THANK YOU
FOR JOINING US.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
TELL US WHAT YOU CAN ABOUT
TELL US WHAT YOU CAN
ABOUT KHALID ALABOUT CAL
KHALID ALABOUT CAL
KHALID al-ASSAD.
KHALID al-ASSAD. >> HE
WAS PRIMARY IN TERMS OF
>> HE WAS PRIMARY IN TERMS OF
HISTORY AND ARCHEOLOGY IN THE
HISTORY AND ARCHEOLOGY IN
THE SITE OF PALMYRA ITSELF.
SITE OF PALMYRA ITSELF. RIGHT
FROM THE VERY BEGINNING,
RIGHT FROM THE VERY BEGINNING,
HE WAS INVOLVED, GOING BACK TO
THE '50s AND '60s, INVOLVED
IN THE EXCAVATIONS AND
RESTORATION AND LATER ON BECAME
THE DIRECTOR OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF ANTIQUITIES IN PALMYRA,
OVERSAW THE MANAGEMENT AND
ADMINISTRATION OF THE SITE FOR
MANY YEARS UNTIL HIS RETIREMENT
MANY YEARS UNTIL HIS
RETIREMENT IN 2003.
IN 2003. IT'S THIS
VERY RICH SOURCE OF
IT'S THIS VERY RICH SOURCE OF
INFORMATION, I BELIEVE, THAT WE
INFORMATION, I BELIEVE, THAT
WE HAVE LOST WITH HIS DEATH.
HAVE LOST WITH HIS
DEATH. >DEATH.
>DEATH. >> Ifill:
HOW DID THE RISE OF
>> Ifill: HOW DID THE RISE OF
I.S.I.S. AFFECT HIS ABILITY TO
I.S.I.S. AFFECT HIS
ABILITY TO DO HIS WORK?
DO HIS WORK? HE WAS
RETIRED BUT CERTAINLY
HE WAS RETIRED BUT
CERTAINLY WELL RESPECTED.
WELL RESPECTED. HOW
DID THAT CHANGE?
HOW DID THAT CHANGE? >> WHEN
I.S.I.S. TAKES OVER ANY
>> WHEN I.S.I.S. TAKES OVER ANY
TERRITORY, PALMYRA OR OTHERWISE,
ESSENTIALLY, THEY ARE IN CHARGE,
AND THEY MAKE IT CERTAIN THAT
EVERYBODY UNDERSTANDS IN NO
UNCERTAIN TERMS THAT THEY'RE
ABSOLUTELY IN CHARGE.
FOR SOMEONE LIKE KHALID
AL-ASSAD, HE WOULD NOT HAVE
BEEN ABLE TO HAVE ANY SORT OF
BEEN ABLE TO HAVE ANY SORT
OF INFORMATION OR CONTACT OR
INFORMATION OR CONTACT OR
INVOLVEMENT WITH THE SITE OF THE
INVOLVEMENT WITH THE SITE
OF THE CULTURAL HERITAGE.
CULTURAL HERITAGE. IN FACT,
HE WAS ARRESTED SHORTLY
IN FACT, HE WAS
ARRESTED SHORTLY AFTER.
AFTER. I.S.I.S.,
SOON AFTER THEY TOOK
I.S.I.S., SOON AFTER THEY TOOK
OVER THE CITY, THEY ROUNDED UP
OVER THE CITY, THEY ROUNDED
UP HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE THEY
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE THEY
CONSIDERED TO BE THEIR ENEMIES.
THEY HAD LISTS OF NAMES READY
AND AVAILABLE FOR THEM, AND
KHALID al-ASSAD WAS ON THAT
LIST AND WE KNOW WAS TAKEN AWAY
THEN, AND THIS IS BACK A FEW
THEN, AND THIS IS BACK
A FEW MONTHS AGO.
MONTHS AGO. >> Ifill:
WHEN DID ART AND
>> Ifill: WHEN DID ART AND
ARCHEOLOGY BECOME POLITICAL?
ARCHEOLOGY BECOME POLITICAL? >>
ARCHEOLOGICAL SITES, CULTURAL
>> ARCHEOLOGICAL SITES, CULTURAL
HERITAGE HAVE BEEN A VICTIM OF
WAR, AT LEAST IN SYRIA, FROM
QUITE EARLY ON, WHEN THE
CONFLICT IN EARLY 2012 CHANGED
FROM ONE OF CIVIL SOCIETY
AGAINST THE REGIME TO AN ARMED
CONFRONTATION BETWEEN REGIME AND
CONFRONTATION BETWEEN
REGIME AND OPPOSITION.
OPPOSITION. ONCE
THAT HAPPENS, WE
ONCE THAT HAPPENS, WE
IMMEDIATELY NOTE A VERY STEEP
RISE IN BASICALLY ACTS OF
VIOLENCE AGAINST ARCHEOLOGICAL
SITES AND MONUMENTS RANGING FROM
VERY MARKED INCREASE IN LOOTING
VERY MARKED INCREASE IN
LOOTING TO ACTUALLY WHERE THE
TO ACTUALLY WHERE THE
ARCHEOLOGICAL SITES THEMSELVES
BECOME CASUALTIES OF WAR BECAUSE
THEY'RE ON THE FRONT LINES AND,
THEY'RE ON THE FRONT LINES
AND, AS THE AREAS OF CONFLICT
AS THE AREAS OF CONFLICT
EXPANDED IN SYRIA, MORE AND MORE
EXPANDED IN SYRIA, MORE AND
MORE SITES ARE INCREASINGLY
SITES ARE INCREASINGLY
VULNERABLE AND BECAME SORT OF
DESTROYED OR DAMAGED AS A RESULT
DESTROYED OR DAMAGED AS A
RESULT OF THAT CONFLICT.
OF THAT CONFLICT. AND
PALMYRA IS NO DIFFERENT IN
AND PALMYRA IS NO
DIFFERENT IN THAT.
THAT. >> WHAT DO
WE KNOW TONIGHT OF
>> WHAT DO WE KNOW TONIGHT OF
THE STATE OF THE 2000-YEAR-OLD
UNESCO HISTORY PROTECTED SITE,
THE ROMAN RUINS, DO WE KNOW
THEY'RE STILL IN TACT?
THEY'RE STILL IN TACT? >>
IN CASE OF PALMYRA, THEY'VE
>> IN CASE OF PALMYRA, THEY'VE
DECIDED THERE'S NO NEED TO
DECIDED THERE'S NO
NEED TO DESTROY IT.
DESTROY IT. WE'VE HAD
NEWS FROM CONTACTS
WE'VE HAD NEWS FROM CONTACTS
SAYING THEY'RE NOT GOING TO DO
ANYTHING TO PALMYRA BECAUSE THEY
SEE IT AS A PROSPECTIVE SAFE
HAVE FROM THE COALITION AIR
HAVE FROM THE COALITION
AIR STRIKES.
STRIKES. NO COALITION
IS GOING TO STRIKE
NO COALITION IS GOING TO STRIKE
A UNESCO WORLD DESIGNATED
HERITAGE SITE.
HERITAGE SITE. THEY'VE
DONE IT IN SEVERAL
THEY'VE DONE IT IN
SEVERAL PLACES.
PLACES. SO THEY'RE
VERY CLEVER TO HOW
SO THEY'RE VERY CLEVER
TO HOW THEY USE IT.
THEY USE IT. THEY LOOT
WHAT THEY CAN LOOT.
THEY LOOT WHAT THEY CAN LOOT.
THEY DESTROY WHAT THEY CANNOT
SELL OR NEED TO MAKE A
PROPAGANDA STATEMENT, AND THEY
WILL HIDE AGAINST WHAT WILL GIVE
WILL HIDE AGAINST WHAT WILL
GIVE THEM SAFE SANCTUARY.
THEM SAFE SANCTUARY.
THEY'RE VERY VERSATILE AND
CLEVER IN HOW THEY USE THAT.
>> Ifill: AMR al-AZM, THANK
>> Ifill: AMR al-AZM, THANK YOU
SO MUCH FOR TELLING US ABOUT
YOU SO MUCH FOR TELLING
US ABOUT YOUR FRIEND.
YOUR FRIEND. >> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS REPORTS TODAY THAT UNDER
PRESS REPORTS TODAY THAT
UNDER AN AGREEMENT WITH THE
AN AGREEMENT WITH THE
INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY
AGENCY, IRAN WILL BE ALLOWED TO
AGENCY, IRAN WILL BE ALLOWED
TO USE ITS OWN INSPECTORS TO
USE ITS OWN INSPECTORS TO
INVESTIGATE ONE LOCATION IT HAS
BEEN ACCUSED OF USING TO DEVELOP
BEEN ACCUSED OF USING TO
DEVELOP NUCLEAR ARMS.
NUCLEAR ARMS. THIS COMES
ABOUT HALFWAY THROUGH
THIS COMES ABOUT HALFWAY THROUGH
THE 60 DAY PERIOD THAT CONGRESS
HAS TO SCRUTINIZE THE IRAN DEAL
WITH THE U.S. AND FIVE OTHER
WITH THE U.S. AND
FIVE OTHER COUNTRIES.
COUNTRIES. A PERIOD IN
WHICH WE'RE SEEING A
A PERIOD IN WHICH WE'RE SEEING A
MULTI-MILLION DOLLAR LOBBYING
MULTI-MILLION DOLLAR
LOBBYING CAMPAIGN.
CAMPAIGN. BOTH HOUSES
OF CONGRESS PLAN TO
BOTH HOUSES OF CONGRESS PLAN TO
VOTE NEXT MONTH ON A MEASURE TO
DISAPPROVE, OR BLOCK, THE DEAL.
BUT OPPONENTS FACE A FEW
BUT OPPONENTS FACE
A FEW HURDLES.
HURDLES. THEY FIRST
NEED 60 VOTES IN THE
THEY FIRST NEED 60
VOTES IN THE SENATE.
SENATE. AND THEN, IF THEY GET A
AND THEN, IF THEY GET A
DISAPPROVAL BILL TO THE
PRESIDENT, HE'S EXPECTED TO VETO
IT, MEANING THEY WOULD THEN NEED
A TWO-THIRD VOTE TO OVERRIDE
A TWO-THIRD VOTE
TO OVERRIDE HIM.
HIM. JOINING ME
NOW FOR A MID-WAY
JOINING ME NOW FOR A MID-WAY
CHECK UP ON ALL THIS ARE: CHIEF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT
MARGARET WARNER AND OUR
POLITICAL DIRECTOR LISA
POLITICAL DIRECTOR
LISA DESJARDINS.
DESJARDINS. >> Woodruff:
WELCOME TO YOU
>> Woodruff: WELCOME
TO YOU BOTH.
BOTH. MARGARET, I'LL
START WITH YOU.
MARGARET, I'LL START WITH
YOU. WHERE DO THINGS STAND
WHERE DO THINGS STAND >> JUDY,
THE WHITE HOUSE THAT IS
>> JUDY, THE WHITE HOUSE THAT IS
GIVEN UP HOPE THIS DEAL MAY BE
CONSIDERED ON THE MERITS WITH NO
PARTISAN AND MAY GET A DEAL WITH
REPUBLICANS SO THEY FOCUSED ON
MAKING SURE THEY HAVE A LOCK
HARD 34 VOTES TO OVERRIDE A VETO
AND THE PRESIDENT IS WORKING
OVERTIME BOTH FROM HIS VACATION
HOME IN MARTHA'S VINEYARD AND
BEFORE THAT IN LOTS OF MEETINGS
TO TRY TO GET AT LEAST 34 TO
TO TRY TO GET AT LEAST
34 TO COME OUT PUBLICLY.
COME OUT PUBLICLY. THAT
SAID, THEY ONLY HAVE 23 TO
THAT SAID, THEY ONLY HAVE 23 TO
24 PUBLICLY DECLAREDTSUPPORTERS,
BUT DID GET A BOOST TODAY WHEN A
BUT DID GET A BOOST TODAY WHEN
A CONSERVATIVE DEMOCRAT FROM
CONSERVATIVE DEMOCRAT FROM
INDIANA, JOE DONNELLY, WHO HAD
BEEN ON THE FENCE, CAME OUT LATE
TODAY AND SAID HE WOULD SUPPORT
TODAY AND SAID HE WOULD
SUPPORT THE DEAL.
THE DEAL. >> Woodruff:
THIS IS A HOUSE
>> Woodruff: THIS
IS A HOUSE MEMBER?
MEMBER? >> NO, SENATOR.
>> NO, SENATOR. >>
Woodruff: SENATOR, I'M
>> Woodruff: SENATOR, I'M SORRY.
SORRY. >> AND THIS
IS QUITE A SURPRISE.
>> AND THIS IS QUITE A SURPRISE.
>> Woodruff: NOW, LISA, YOU'RE
WATCHING THE HILL VERY CLOSELY.
WATCHING THE HILL VERY
CLOSELY. WHAT DO YOU SEE?
WHAT DO YOU SEE? >> I THINK
THINGS LOOK GOOD FOR
>> I THINK THINGS LOOK GOOD FOR
THE PRESIDENT, TO BE HONEST
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT HAS TWO
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT HAS
TWO CHANCES TO WIN HERE.
CHANCES TO WIN HERE. FIRST
OF ALL, CAN OPPONENTS GET
FIRST OF ALL, CAN OPPONENTS GET
60 VOTES TO SAY WE WANT TO BLOCK
60 VOTES TO SAY WE WANT
TO BLOCK THIS DEAL?
THIS DEAL? IT'S NOT
CLEAR THAT THEY CAN.
IT'S NOT CLEAR THAT THEY CAN.
IF THEY DO GET THE 60 VOTES,
THEN GOING DOWN THE LINE
FOLLOWING ALL OF THAT TOGETHER
THERNTION THEY'D NEED TO
OVERRIDE A PRESIDENTIAL VETO AND
VIRTUALLY NO ONE I TALK TO ON
THE HILL THINKS THE 67 VOTES ARE
THE HILL THINKS THE 67
VOTES ARE THERE RIGHT NOW.
THERE RIGHT NOW. WHY IS
THERE STRESS AND CONCERN
WHY IS THERE STRESS AND
CONCERN FROM DEMOCRATS?
FROM DEMOCRATS? IT'S
BECAUSE THEY ARE STILL THE
IT'S BECAUSE THEY ARE STILL THE
GROUP OF UNDECIDED DEMOCRATS TO
ABOUT A DOZEN, AND THAT'S ABOUT
AS MANY VOTES AS YOU NEED TO
AS MANY VOTES AS YOU NEED
TO OVERRIDE THE PRESIDENT.
OVERRIDE THE PRESIDENT. SO
THE CONCERN IS IF THERE'S
SO THE CONCERN IS IF THERE'S
BREAKING NEWS OR A STORY THAT
SHIFTS OPINION IN THE NEXT FEW
SHIFTS OPINION IN
THE NEXT FEW WEEKS.
WEEKS. >> Woodruff:
MARGARET, WE KNOW
>> Woodruff: MARGARET, WE KNOW
THE ISRAELIS, WE MENTIONED THE
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS SPENT
LOBBYING ON THIS, WE KNOW THE
ISRAELIS HAVE BEEN VERY HEAVILY
INVOLVED, THE AMERICAN JEWISH
COMMUNITY IS INVOLVED AND IS
COMMUNITY IS INVOLVED
AND IS SPLIT ON THIS.
SPLIT ON THIS. COULD HAVE
BEEN LOOKING AT THAT
COULD HAVE BEEN LOOKING AT THAT
AND HOW THE REST OF THE WORLD
VIEWS EVERYTHING THAT'S
HAPPENING IN WASHINGTON.
>> JUDY, AS YOU SAID, THE
AMBASSADOR FROM ISRAEL HAS BEEN
WORKING HARD AND THE WHITE HOUSE
IS PRETTY FURIOUS ABOUT THAT,
TRYING TO UNDERMINE THIS DEAL.
TRYING TO UNDERMINE THIS
DEAL. BUT INTERESTINGLY, THE
BUT INTERESTINGLY, THE
AMBASSADORS OF THE FIVE
COUNTRIES THAT NEGOTIATED THE
DEAL WITH THE U.S. THE BRITISH,
FRENCH, GERMAN, CHINESE AND
RUSSIANS GOT TOGETHER AND MET
WITH 25 SENATE DEMOCRATS TWO OR
WITH 25 SENATE DEMOCRATS
TWO OR THREE WEEKS AGO.
THREE WEEKS AGO. AS ONE
EUROPEAN DIPLOMAT SAID, I
AS ONE EUROPEAN DIPLOMAT SAID,
I THINK THIS IS UNPRECEDENTED.
THINK THIS IS UNPRECEDENTED.
OUR INTERESTS NEVER CONVERGE,
AND THEIR MESSAGE WAS, DON'T
FOOL YOURSELF, IF THE U.S.
CONGRESS BLOCKS THIS DEAL, THERE
IS NO BETTER DEAL OUT THERE.
THAT SAID, THEY ARE OVERSEEING
THIS WATCH WITH DISMAY.
THIS WATCH WITH DISMAY. NO
OTHER COUNTRY OTHER THAN
NO OTHER COUNTRY OTHER THAN
PERHAPS IRAN IS TAKING IT TO THE
PERHAPS IRAN IS TAKING IT TO
THE PARLIAMENT AND THE DEPUTY
PARLIAMENT AND THE DEPUTY
GENERAL AMBASSADOR SAID THIS
PROJECT OF REJECTION OF A DEAL
PROJECT OF REJECTION OF A
DEAL MAKES US VERY NERVOUS.
MAKES US VERY NERVOUS. IN
GERMANY, EVERYONE SUPPORTS
IN GERMANY, EVERYONE SUPPORTS
THE DEAL, SO THEY WILL FEEL
BETTER IF THE WHITE HOUSE HAS
BETTER IF THE WHITE HOUSE
HAS NOT 24 BUT 34 ANNOUNCED
NOT 24 BUT 34
ANNOUNCED SUPPORTERS.
SUPPORTERS. >> Woodruff:
AND LISA, YOU
>> Woodruff: AND LISA, YOU WERE
SAYING EARLIER TODAY, WITH
WERE SAYING EARLIER TODAY, WITH
SO MUCH OF THE FOCUS ON THESE
DEMOCRATS, A LOT OF THIS DEPENDS
ON THE PRESIDENT'S RELATIONSHIP
WITH THE DEMOCRATS.
MARGARET MENTIONED SENATOR
DONNELLY, BUT THERE ARE OTHERS
DONNELLY, BUT THERE ARE
OTHERS THEY HAVE TO WORK ON.
THEY HAVE TO WORK ON. >>
SENATOR ED MARKY CAME OUT
>> SENATOR ED MARKY CAME OUT
FROM MASSACHUSETTS, AND THAT'S
WHAT THE WHITE HOUSE IS DOING IS
THEY WANT TO ROLL OUT A NUMBER
THEY WANT TO ROLL OUT A
NUMBER OF YES VOTES.
OF YES VOTES. BUT I
THINK THE INTERESTING
BUT I THINK THE INTERESTING
THING IS AT A TOUGH VOTE LIKE
THIS, WHICH THIS IS, A PRESIDENT
CAN OFTEN BE A WILDCARD.
CAN OFTEN BE A WILDCARD. IF
IT'S A STRONG RELATIONSHIP,
IF IT'S A STRONG RELATIONSHIP,
THAT WILD CARD SWINGS VOTES THIS
THAT WILD CARD SWINGS
VOTES THIS WAY.
WAY. THIS PRESIDENT
DOES NOT HAVE
THIS PRESIDENT DOES NOT HAVE
THAT CAPITAL WITH THE DEMOCRATS
IN CONGRESS TO WIN HIS TRUST.
THEY DON'T QUITE TRUST HIM
ENOUGH TO SAY YES WITHOUT
EVALUATING THIS DEAL EXTRA
EVALUATING THIS DEAL
EXTRA CAREFULLY.
CAREFULLY. >> AT THIS
POINT, IT'S DOWN TO
>> AT THIS POINT, IT'S DOWN TO
SUBSTANTIVE AND PENETRATING
QUESTIONS AND WHAT HAPPENS AFTER
QUESTIONS AND WHAT
HAPPENS AFTER YEAR TEN.
YEAR TEN. JUST TO FOLLOW
UP FROM WHAT LISA
JUST TO FOLLOW UP FROM WHAT LISA
SAID, THERE'S BEEN DISMAY IN
DEMOCRAT QUARTERS OVER THE
PRESIDENT'S TONE, FOR INSTANCE
HIS SPEECH AT A UNIVERSITY WHERE
ONE PERSON SAID HE APPEARED TO
BE LECTURING AND EQUATED THE
BE LECTURING AND EQUATED
THE OPPONENTS WITH WINNING
OPPONENTS WITH WINNING
HARDLINERS WHICH OFFENDEDE
HARDLINERS WHICH OFFENDEDE AND
THEN I'M TOLD BY A LEADER OF
AND THEN I'M TOLD BY A LEADER OF
THE MAJOR JEWISH ORGANIZATION
WHO SUPPORTS THE DEAL BUT WAS IN
WHO SUPPORTS THE DEAL BUT WAS
IN THE PRIVATE MEETING THE
THE PRIVATE MEETING THE
PRESIDENT HELD WITH HEADS OF
JEWISH ORGANIZATIONS, HE SAID
THE PRESIDENT'S FRUSTRATION
REALLY SHOWED THROUGH.
REALLY SHOWED THROUGH. HE
SAID THERE IS, LIKE, A
HE SAID THERE IS, LIKE, A
PROFESSOR WHO SAID I HAVE BEEN
TEACHING THIS CLASS FIVE YEARS
AND THEY STILL DON'T GET IT.
THAT SAID, THE WHITE HOUSE
BELIEVES THAT, ONE WAY OR
ANOTHER, EITHER BY FRUSTRATING
THE 60 VOTES THAT THE OPPONENTS
NEED TO EVEN GET TO A VOTE, IF
YOU UNDERSTAND, OR BY ACTUALLY
OVERRIDING A VETO, THEY CAN MAKE
OVERRIDING A VETO, THEY CAN
MAKE THIS DEAL GO THROUGH.
THIS DEAL GO THROUGH. >>
Woodruff: SO, FINALLY,
>> Woodruff: SO, FINALLY, LISA,
WHO ARE THEY WATCHING THE
LISA, WHO ARE THEY
WATCHING THE MOST?
MOST? WHO IS THIS
COMING DOWN TO IN
WHO IS THIS COMING
DOWN TO IN THE SENATE.
THE SENATE. >> HARRY
REID, DEMOCRATIC
>> HARRY REID, DEMOCRATIC
LEADERS, BUT IT WILL BE A
SURPRISE IN FAVOR TO HAVE THE
IRAN STILL BOOKER AND BENNETT,
BENNETT IS UP FOR REELECTIONS.
THE TIME TO WATCH WILL BE THE
WEEK OF SEPTEMBER 7 WHEN THE
SENATE IS EXPECTED TO START
SENATE IS EXPECTED
TO START DEBATE.
DEBATE. >> Woodruff:
LABOR DAY WEEK.
>> Woodruff: LABOR DAY WEEK.
THERE IS A BELIEF SENATOR BEN
CARDIN IS THE RANKING DEMOCRAT
ON FOREIGN RELATIONS AND IT IS
BELIEVED HE WILL BE TOUGH GIVEN
BELIEVED HE WILL BE TOUGH
GIVEN HIS HOME IN BALTIMORE.
HIS HOME IN BALTIMORE. >>
Woodruff: INTERESTING TO
>> Woodruff: INTERESTING TO
WATCH THE BACK AND FORTH AND
WATCH THE BACK AND FORTH
AND ARGUMENT ON TS.HI
ARGUMENT ON TS.HI LISA
DESJARDINS, MARGARET
LISA DESJARDINS, MARGARET
WARNER, THANK YOU.
WARNER, THANK YOU. >> PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: STAY WITH US. COMING
UP ON THE NEWSHOUR: OUR
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR: OUR
INTERVIEW WITH PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE JOHN KASICH, A NEW
PILL FOR WOMEN TO INCREASE
LIBIDO AND ENDING FINANCIAL AID
FOR WEALTHY COLLEGE APPLICANTS
SO THAT NEEDY STUDENTS CAN
SO THAT NEEDY
STUDENTS CAN ATTEND.
ATTEND. BUT FIRST:
WILDFIRES IN THE
BUT FIRST: WILDFIRES
IN THE NORTHWEST.
NORTHWEST. NEW EVACUATION
ORDERS WENT OUT
NEW EVACUATION ORDERS WENT OUT
TODAY, AFFECTING HUNDREDS OF
TODAY, AFFECTING
HUNDREDS OF HOMES.
HOMES. WILLIAM
BRANGHAM REPORTS ON A
WILLIAM BRANGHAM REPORTS ON A
FIRE SEASON THAT'S PUSHED THE
SYSTEM TO THE BREAKING POINT.
>> Reporter: SINCE LAST WEEK,
SMOKE HAS POURED INTO THE SKIES
OUTSIDE CHELAN, WASHINGTON, AS
OUTSIDE CHELAN, WASHINGTON,
AS MORE THAN A THOUSAND
MORE THAN A THOUSAND
FIREFIGHTERS AND VOLUNTEERS
STRUGGLE TO GAIN CONTROL.
STRUGGLE TO GAIN CONTROL. THE
COMPLEX OF FIRES HAS GROWN
THE COMPLEX OF FIRES HAS GROWN
TO MORE THAN 170 SQUARE MILES,
DESTROYING MORE THAN 50 HOMES
AND LEAVING CHARRED DEBRIS.
>> WE HAD A REALLY BIG LIVING
>> WE HAD A REALLY
BIG LIVING ROOM.
ROOM. I DIDN TAK'TE ANY FAMILY
I DIDN TAK'TE ANY FAMILY
PICTURES OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
I DID NOT THINK ANYTHING WAS
I DID NOT THINK ANYTHING
WAS GONNA HAPPEN.
GONNA HAPPEN. >> Reporter:
IN ALL, WELL OVER
>> Reporter: IN ALL, WELL OVER
100 FIRES ARE BURNING IN THE
STATES ACROSS THE PACIFIC
STATES ACROSS THE
PACIFIC NORTHWEST.
NORTHWEST. MORE THAN
50 OF THOSE-- FROM
MORE THAN 50 OF THOSE-- FROM
NORTHERN WASHINGTON DOWN TO
OREGON AND IDAHO-- ARE LARGER
OREGON AND IDAHO-- ARE
LARGER THAN 100 ACRES.
THAN 100 ACRES.
CALIFORNIA ALSO FACES NEW
OUTBREAKS JUST DAYS AFTER
CONTAINING THE MASSIVE ROCKY
FIRE NORTH OF SAN FRANCISCO.
ALL TOLD, ROUGHLY A MILLION
ACRES OF LAND HAS BURNED.
ACRES OF LAND HAS BURNED. THE
FLAMES ARE BEING FUELED BY
THE FLAMES ARE BEING FUELED BY
DROUGHT, LOW HUMIDITY AND HIGH
DROUGHT, LOW HUMIDITY AND
HIGH TEMPERATURES THAT TURN
TEMPERATURES THAT TURN
VEGETATION INTO DRY TINDER FOR
VEGETATION INTO DRY TINDER
FOR LIGHTNING STRIKES.
LIGHTNING STRIKES. AND THE
SHEER NUMBER OF FIRES
AND THE SHEER NUMBER OF FIRES
HAS STRETCHED BUDGETS AND
PERSONNEL TO THE LIMIT.
PERSONNEL TO THE LIMIT. >>
IT'S PAST TEN HOURS, WE'RE UP
>> IT'S PAST TEN
HOURS, WE'RE UP HERE.
HERE. IT'S HOT.
IT'S HOT. I GOT NEW
BOOTS YESTERDAY, WE'RE
I GOT NEW BOOTS YESTERDAY,
WE'RE BREAKING THEM IN.
BREAKING THEM IN. I'M
GETTING BLISTERS ON MY
I'M GETTING BLISTERS
ON MY HEELS.
HEELS. >> Reporter:
YESTERDAY, NATIONAL
>> Reporter: YESTERDAY, NATIONAL
GUARD UNITS ARRIVED AT CHELAN
WITH HEAVY EQUIPMENT, INCLUDING
WITH HEAVY EQUIPMENT,
INCLUDING HELICOPTERS.
HELICOPTERS. AND-- FOR NCE
AND-- FOR NCE 2006--
200 ACTIVE DUTY ARMY
2006-- 200 ACTIVE DUTY ARMY
TROOPS ARE BEING CALLED OUT.
THEY'LL DEPLOY TO A SEPARATE
FIRE IN NORTHERN WASHINGTON.
FOR NOW, THERE'S NO END IN
SIGHT, WITH IMMEDIATE FORECASTS
CALLING FOR MORE HEAT.
CALLING FOR MORE HEAT. FOR
MORE ON HOW FIRE OFFICIALS
FOR MORE ON HOW FIRE OFFICIALS
ARE COPING WITH THESE MANY
FIRES, WE TURN TO RON DUNTON.
HE'S WITH THE BUREAU OF LAND
MANAGEMENT AND HE IS HELPING
COORDINATE FIRE RESPONSE AT THE
NATIONAL INTERAGENCY FIRE CENTER
NATIONAL INTERAGENCY FIRE
CENTER IN BOISE, IDAHO.
IN BOISE, IDAHO. RON
DUNTON, THANKS FOR BEING
RON DUNTON, THANKS
FOR BEING HERE.
HERE. THE MATH IS STAGGERING.
THE MATH IS STAGGERING. THERE
ARE SO MANY FIRES BURNING
THERE ARE SO MANY FIRES
BURNING OUT WEST.
OUT WEST. HOW DO YOU
COMPARE THIS TO PRIOR
HOW DO YOU COMPARE THIS
TO PRIOR FIRE SEASONS?
FIRE SEASONS? >> THIS
IS A BIG YEAR, AS
>> THIS IS A BIG
YEAR, AS MENTIONED.
MENTIONED. WE HAVEN'T
DEPLOYED MILITARY
WE HAVEN'T DEPLOYED MILITARY
SINCE 2008, AND THAT'S A GOOD
SIGN HATT OUR INTERNAL SYSTEM IS
SIGN HATT OUR INTERNAL
SYSTEM IS BEING OVERWHELMED.
BEING OVERWHELMED. WE'RE
ESSENTIALLY OUT OF FEDERAL
WE'RE ESSENTIALLY OUT OF FEDERAL
FIREFIGHTING RESOURCES AND ARE
HAVING TO TAP IN WITH TROOPS
FROM THE UNITED STATES ARMY.
WE'RE ALSO BRINGING IN CANADIAN
RESOURCES AND NOW REACHING OUT
TO AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND TO
BRING IN FIRE PERSONNEL FROM
BRING IN FIRE PERSONNEL
FROM THOSE TWO COUNTRIES.
THOSE TWO COUNTRIES. SO
IT'S A VERY BIG YEAR.
SO IT'S A VERY BIG YEAR. WE'RE
AT WHAT WE REFERRED TO AS
WE'RE AT WHAT WE REFERRED TO AS
PREPAREDNESS LEVEL 5, WHICH IS
THE HIGHEST LEVEL OF NATIONAL
THE HIGHEST LEVEL OF
NATIONAL PREPAREDNESS.
PREPAREDNESS. >>
Brangham: IS THAT A
>> Brangham: IS THAT A
FUNCTION OF YOU HAVE SO MANY
FIRES BURNING YOU DON'T HAVE
ENOUGH BODIES TO PUT ON THE
ENOUGH BODIES TO
PUT ON THE FIRES?
FIRES? >> THAT'S PRETTY MUCH IT.
>> THAT'S PRETTY MUCH IT. WE
HAVE TO PRIORITIZE WORKING AT
WE HAVE TO PRIORITIZE WORKING AT
PROTECTING COMMUNITIES AND THE
PUBLIC, SO LETTING SOME FIRES --
I WON'T SAY JUST LETTING THEM DO
GO, BUT LESS PRIORITY ON FIRES
THAT AREN'T THREATENING ANYTHING
IN TERMS OF FIREFIGHTINGER AND
IN TERMS OF FIREFIGHTINGER
AND PUBLIC SAFETY.
PUBLIC SAFETY. >>
Brangham: HOW MUCH OF
>> Brangham: HOW MUCH OF THIS
-- BECAUSE WE HAVE MORE AND
THIS -- BECAUSE WE HAVE MORE
AND MORE PEOPLE LIVING IN MORE
MORE PEOPLE LIVING IN
MORE REMOTE AREAS.
REMOTE AREAS. IS THAT
A CONCERN FOR PEOPLE
IS THAT A CONCERN FOR PEOPLE
MANAGING THIS VAST WILDERNESS?
MANAGING THIS VAST
WILDERNESS? >> ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY. A LOT OF
THE FIRES WOULD BE MUCH
A LOT OF THE FIRES WOULD BE MUCH
SIMPLER TO DEAL WITH OTHER THAN
THE FACT PEOPLE HAVE MOVED IN
INTO WHAT WE REFER TO AS THE
WAGON AND URBAN INTERFACE.
IT CAUSES SIGNIFICANT
DIFFICULTIES.
DIFFICULTIES. AGAIN,
YOU KNOW, OUR FIRST
AGAIN, YOU KNOW, OUR FIRST
PRIORITY IS THE FIREFIGHTER AND
PUBLIC SAFETY, SO WE HAVE TO
EXPEND RESOURCES HELPING TO
EVACUATE PEOPLE WHEN WE SHOULD
BE FIGHTIN FIGHTING THE FIRE, ON
SOME CASE, FIRES THAT COULD BE
LEFT TO BURN NATURALLY CAN'T BE
LEFT TO BURN NATURALLY CAN'T
BE LEFT BECAUSE TO HAVE THE
LEFT BECAUSE TO HAVE
THE COMMUNITIES.
COMMUNITIES. >>
Brangham: YOU MENTIONED
>> Brangham: YOU MENTIONED FIRES
COULD BE LEFT TO BURN, IS
FIRES COULD BE LEFT TO BURN,
IS THAT BECAUSE YOU DON'T HAVE
THAT BECAUSE YOU DON'T HAVE
ENOUGH PERSONNEL OR SOME ARGUED
IT'S GOOD TO LET THE UNDERBRUSH
BURN OUT TO CLEAR OUT SOME OF
THE TINDER FOR FIRES FOR THE
THE TINDER FOR FIRES
FOR THE FUTURE.
FUTURE. >> THERE'S NO
QUESTION FIRES ARE
>> THERE'S NO QUESTION FIRES ARE
BENEFICIAL IN SOME ECOSYSTEMS
AND, WHERE POSSIBLE, ALLOW A
FIRE TO RUN ITS NATURAL COURSE,
BUT IF YOU HAVE COMMUNITIES OR
HOUSES IN THE WAY THAT HAVE
BUILT UP, THEN THAT BECOMES
BUILT UP, THEN THAT
BECOMES IMPOSSIBLE.
IMPOSSIBLE. WE CAN
ALSO DEAL WITH, UNDER
WE CAN ALSO DEAL WITH, UNDER
CERTAIN CONDITIONS, WE'LL LIGHT
A FIRE AND CAREFULLY MANAGER IT.
A FIRE AND CAREFULLY MANAGER
IT. BUT IN TERMS OF UTILIZING
BUT IN TERMS OF UTILIZING
NATURAL FIRE, WE HAVE TO BE VERY
CAREFUL BECAUSE OF THE SPREAD OF
COMMUNITIES BANK THIS DROUGHT
HAS CAUSED ENORMOUS PROBLEMS FOR
HAS CAUSED ENORMOUS
PROBLEMS FOR FIREFIGHTERS.
FIREFIGHTERS. IT OBVIOUSLY
MAKES EVERYTHING
IT OBVIOUSLY MAKES EVERYTHING
VERY DRY OUT THERE.
VERY DRY OUT THERE. DOES
IT CAUSE A PROBLEM FOR YOU
DOES IT CAUSE A PROBLEM FOR YOU
AS FAR AS ACCESS TO WATER?
DO YOU HAVE ENOUGH WATER YOU
NEED TO FIGHT THE FIRES WITH?
>> I WOULDN'T SAY WATER IS THE
>> I WOULDN'T SAY
WATER IS THE ISSUE.
ISSUE. DROUGHT IS
CERTAINLY A BIG
DROUGHT IS CERTAINLY
A BIG ISSUE.
ISSUE. WE'VE HAD
LOTS OF ENGINES THAT
WE'VE HAD LOTS OF ENGINES THAT
CARRY THEIR OWN WATER AND WATER
SOURCES WE CAN ACCESS. SO
I PROBABLY WOULDN'T GO TO
SO I PROBABLY WOULDN'T GO TO
WATER AS BEING A LIMITING FACTOR
TO US, BUT OUTSTRETCHED FUEL IS
CAUSING EXTREME FIRE BEHAVIOR.
EXTREME FIRE BEHAVIOR IS
EXTREME FIRE BEHAVIOR
IS BECOMING THE NORM.
BECOMING THE NORM. >>
Brangham: I UNDERSTAND THE
>> Brangham: I UNDERSTAND THE
FORECAST DOESN'T LOOK GOOD IN
FORECAST DOESN'T LOOK GOOD
IN THE NEXT ONE OF DAYS.
THE NEXT ONE OF DAYS. IS
THERE ANY RELIEF IN SIGHT AS
IS THERE ANY RELIEF IN SIGHT
AS FAR AS YOU CAN SEE?
FAR AS YOU CAN SEE? >> NO.
>> NO. THAT'S KIND
OF THE BAD NEWS.
THAT'S KIND OF THE BAD NEWS.
WE HAVE A WIND EVENT COMING
ACROSS THE NORTHWEST FRIDAY, WE
ACROSS THE NORTHWEST FRIDAY,
WE HAVE A LOT OF FIRE IN THE
HAVE A LOT OF FIRE
IN THE NORTHWEST.
NORTHWEST. SO THE
WIND WILL CONTINUE TO
SO THE WIND WILL CONTINUE
TO PUSH THOSE FIRES.
PUSH THOSE FIRES. WE SEE
NOTHING IN THE WAY OF AN
WE SEE NOTHING IN THE WAY OF AN
EVENT IN TERMS OF LARGE-SCALE
MOISTURE MOVING INTO THE WESTERN
MOISTURE MOVING INTO THE
WESTERN UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES. MORE DRY
WET AROUND THEN THE
MORE DRY WET AROUND THEN THE
POSSIBILITY OF LIGHTNING MID
POSSIBILITY OF LIGHTNING
MID WEEK NEXT WEEK.
WEEK NEXT WEEK. >>
Brangham: RON, THANK YOU
>> Brangham: RON, THANK
YOU AND GOOD LUCK.
AND GOOD LUCK. >> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: JOHN KASICH, THE
GOVERNOR OF THE POLITICALLY
IMPORTANT STATE OF OHIO IS
TRYING TO CONVINCE REPUBLICANS
HE CAN RETURN THEM TO THE WHITE
HE CAN RETURN THEM
TO THE WHITE HOUSE.
HOUSE. BEFORE BECOMING
GOVERNOR, KASICH
BEFORE BECOMING GOVERNOR, KASICH
SERVED 18 YEARS IN CONGRESS AND
HAS BEEN A BUSINESSMAN, AUTHOR
HAS BEEN A BUSINESSMAN,
AUTHOR AND TALK SHOW HOST.
AND TALK SHOW HOST.
YESTERDAY, AT THE HOME PLATE
DINER IN DES MOINES, IOWA, WE
TALKED ABOUT WHY HE IS RUNNING.R
TALKED ABOUT WHY HE IS
RUNNING.R PRESIDENT.
PRESIDENT. >> I TRIED.
>> I TRIED. >.>> Ifill:
WHAT'S DIFFERENT
>.>> Ifill: WHAT'S
DIFFERENT NOW?
NOW? >> WELL, AS
GOVERNOR OF OHIO,
>> WELL, AS GOVERNOR OF OHIO,
IT'S A BIG JOB AND A LOT OF
RESPONSIBILITY AND I'M A LITTLE
OLDER AND I DROPPED OUT REALLY
BACK THEN BECAUSE I COULDN'T
BACK THEN BECAUSE I
COULDN'T RAISE THE MONEY.
RAISE THE MONEY. I MEAN,
ULTIMATELY, IT GETS IN
I MEAN, ULTIMATELY, IT GETS IN
SOME WAYS TO BE A MONEY GAME.
NOT TOTALLY, BUT IN SOME WAYS.
BUT, YOU KNOW, I GOT IN LATE AND
I GOT IN LATE BECAUSE I WANTED
TO MAKE SURE I HAD A CHANCE TO
TO MAKE SURE I HAD
A CHANCE TO WIN.
WIN. I'M NOT DOING
THIS ON A LARK
I'M NOT DOING THIS ON A
LARK JUST TO HAVE FUN.
JUST TO HAVE FUN.
ALTHOUGH I AM HAVING FUN.
ALTHOUGH I AM HAVING FUN. I'M
REALLY ENJOYING MYSELF ALL
I'M REALLY ENJOYING MYSELF
ALL OVER THE COUNTRY.
OVER THE COUNTRY. SO I'M READY.
SO I'M READY. I MEAN, I'M READY
I MEAN, I'M READY
INTELLECTUALLY, I'M READY
EMOTIONALLY TO BE ABLE TO DO
EMOTIONALLY TO BE ABLE TO
DO THIS AND TO HELP FIX THE
THIS AND TO HELP
FIX THE COUNTRY.
COUNTRY. >> Ifill:
LET'S TALK ABOUT
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
SOME OF THE ISSUES WHICH YOU
WOULD BE FACING IF YOU WERE
WOULD BE FACING IF YOU
WERE PRESIDENT, AMONG THEM
PRESIDENT, AMONG
THEM IMMIGRATION.
IMMIGRATION. THERE
IS BEEN A LOT OF
THERE IS BEEN A LOT OF
DISCUSSION THIS WEEK ABOUT SCOTT
DISCUSSION THIS WEEK
ABOUT SCOTT WALKER --
WALKER -- >> WE HAVE
TO FOCUS ON THE
>> WE HAVE TO FOCUS ON THE
BIGGEST ISSUE WHICH IS WE HAVE
TO FINISH THE WALL AND THEN MAKE
IT CLEAR, IF ANYBODY COMES OVER
THAT WALL, THEY'VE GOT TO GO
THAT WALL, THEY'VE
GOT TO GO BACK.
BACK. THERE SHOULD
BE NO DEBATE ABOUT
THERE SHOULD BE NO
DEBATE ABOUT THAT.
THAT. THAT WAS ONE
OF THE THINGS I
THAT WAS ONE OF THE THINGS I
THINK WE MADE A MISTAKE ON,
GWEN, IN '86 WHEN WE DID THE
REAGAN REFORM ON IMMIGRATION.
REAGAN REFORM ON IMMIGRATION. I
ALSO THINK WE NEED TO EXPAND
I ALSO THINK WE NEED TO EXPAND
THE GUEST WORKER PROGRAM SO
PEOPLE CAN COME IN AND GO BACK,
AND THEN I THINK WITH THE
AND THEN I THINK WITH THE 12
MILLION, THEY'RE HERE, IF
12 MILLION, THEY'RE HERE, IF
THEY HAVE BEEN LAW-ABIDING, THEN
I BELIEVE THEY SHOULD HAVE A
I BELIEVE THEY SHOULD HAVE
A PATH TO LEGALIZATION.
PATH TO LEGALIZATION. THEY'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO PAY A
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO PAY A
FINE AND WAIT, BUT THEY HAVE
BECOME A VERY IMPORTANT PART OF
BECOME A VERY IMPORTANT
PART OF OUR SOCIETY.
OUR SOCIETY.
>> Ifill: PATHTO LEGALIZATION
RIBS THE REPUBLICANS THE WRONG
RIBS THE REPUBLICANS
THE WRONG WAY.
WAY. >> WHAT DO YOU
THINK WE'LL DO,
>> WHAT DO YOU THINK WE'LL DO,
CHASE THEM DOWN, PUT THE LIGHTS
ON TOP TO HAVE CARS AND GO INTO
NEIGHBORHOODS AND HUNT THEM
NEIGHBORHOODS AND
HUNT THEM DOWN?
DOWN? THAT'S NOT
WHAT AMERICA IS.
THAT'S NOT WHAT AMERICA IS.
LOOK, NOBODY LIKES THAT THEY
BROKE THE LAW, THEY DITCHED THE
BROKE THE LAW, THEY
DITCHED THE LINE.
LINE. I TOLD MY KIDS,
AS MUCH AS YOU
I TOLD MY KIDS, AS MUCH AS YOU
LOVE TAYLOR SWIFT, YOU DON'T
DITCH THE LINE TO GET INTO A
DITCH THE LINE TO
GET INTO A CONCERT.
CONCERT. BUT MANY ARE
HERE AND THEY'RE
BUT MANY ARE HERE AND THEY'RE
HARD-WORKING PEOPLE.
THEY'RE LAW-ABIDING,
GOD-FEARING, FAMILY-ORIENTED.
YOU KNOW, WHAT WE HAVE TO DO IS
GET THE WALL FIXED SO WE CAN END
THIS, SO WE CAN CONTROL OUR
BORDERS, AND THEN WE HAVE TO
MAKE IT CLEAR, IF YOU DO THAT
AGAIN, IF YOU JUMP IT AGAIN,
AGAIN, IF YOU JUMP IT
AGAIN, YOU'RE GOING BACK.
YOU'RE GOING BACK. >>
Ifill: YOU'VE ALSO DEFENDED
>> Ifill: YOU'VE ALSO DEFENDED
COMMON COREDUCA ETION REFORMS
AND MEDICAID EXPANSION.
AND MEDICAID EXPANSION. LET'S
TALK ABOUT THEM ONE AT A
LET'S TALK ABOUT
THEM ONE AT A TIME.
TIME. >> FIRST OF
ALL, THIS COMMON
>> FIRST OF ALL, THIS COMMON
CORE IS A LABEL, OKAY.
CORE IS A LABEL, OKAY. IN
MY STATE, WE DID NOT HAVE
IN MY STATE, WE DID NOT HAVE
HIGH STANDARDS FOR OUR KIDS.
HIGH STANDARDS FOR OUR KIDS. WE
LOWERED THE BAR -- OR WE HAD
WE LOWERED THE BAR -- OR WE HAD
A LOW BAR SO THEY COULD JUMP
OVER IT AND EVERYBODY WOULD FEEL
OVER IT AND EVERYBODY
WOULD FEEL GOOD.
GOOD. 40% OF OUR
GRADUATES GO INTO
40% OF OUR GRADUATES GO INTO
COLLEGES AND HAVE TO TAKE
REMEDIAL PROGRAMS, THINGS THEY
SHOULD HAVE LEARNED WHEN THEY
WERE YOUNGER, IN HIGH SCHOOL.
THE DEAL IS WE HAVE HIGH
STANDARDS AND THE CURRICULUM IS
SET BY LOCAL SKEWED BOARDS BY
SET BY LOCAL SKEWED BOARDS
BY PARENTAL ADVISORY.
PARENTAL ADVISORY. I DON'T
KNOW HOW ELSE YOU WOULD
I DON'T KNOW HOW ELSE
YOU WOULD DO THIS.
DO THIS. I DON'T RUN
THE PROGRAM AND WE
I DON'T RUN THE PROGRAM AND WE
CERTAINLY DON'T LET WASHINGTON
CERTAINLY DON'T LET
WASHINGTON RUN IT.
RUN IT. BUT I WANT
HIGH STANDARDS IN
BUT I WANT HIGH
STANDARDS IN OHIO.
OHIO. IF SOME STATES
WANT TO CHOOSE TO
IF SOME STATES WANT TO CHOOSE TO
DO IT ANOTHER WAY, THAT'S UP TO
DO IT ANOTHER WAY,
THAT'S UP TO THEM.
THEM. I BELIEVE, IF
I WERE PRESIDENT,
I BELIEVE, IF I WERE PRESIDENT,
I WOULD WA TONT SPEND A LOT OF
TIME GOING TO THE LEGISLATURES
AND TELLING THEM ABOUT BEST
PRACTICES, WHATEVER IT IS,
WHETHER FIGHTING POVERTY,
WHETHER IT'S ABOUT EDUCATING
WHETHER IT'S ABOUT
EDUCATING KIDS.
KIDS. THE STATES ARE
THE LABORATORIES
THE STATES ARE THE LABORATORIES
WHERE WE CAN SEE WHAT WORKS, AND
I THINK PRESIDENTS CAN HAVE A
MUCH BETTER RELATIONSHIP WITH
MUCH BETTER RELATIONSHIP
WITH LEGISLATURES.
LEGISLATURES. >> Ifill:
WHAT ABOUT MEDICAID
>> Ifill: WHAT ABOUT MEDICAID
EXPANSION? >> WELL,
WE'VE CONTROLLED THE
>> WELL, WE'VE CONTROLLED
THE GROWTH OF MEDICAID.
GROWTH OF MEDICAID. IN MY
SECOND BUDGET, THE GROWTH
IN MY SECOND BUDGET, THE
GROWTH WAS AT 2.5%.
WAS AT 2.5%. WE TAKE
THE MONEY AND WE REHAB
WE TAKE THE MONEY AND WE REHAB
THE DRUG ADDICTED IN OUR PRISONS
AND HAND THEM OFF TO OUR LOCAL
COMMUNITY AND THE RECIDIVISM
RATE IS 10%, MAYBE THE LOWEST IN
RATE IS 10%, MAYBE THE
LOWEST IN THE COUNTRY.
THE COUNTRY. SO WE
SAVE MONEY FROM THE
SO WE SAVE MONEY FROM THE
STANDPOINT OF NOT LOCKING THEM
UP AND, SECONDLY, ISN'T IT GREAT
TO LET PEOPLE PURSUE THEIR
GOD-GIVEN PURPOSE IN LIFE?
THAT'S WHAT THIS IS ABOUT.
THAT'S WHAT THIS IS ABOUT. WE
CAN'T TURN OUR BACK ON PEOPLE
WE CAN'T TURN OUR BACK ON
PEOPLE WHO NEED SOME HELP.
WHO NEED SOME HELP.
BUT, GWEN, IN OHIO, OUR
PHILOSOPHY I GOT FROM MY MOTHER
IS IT'S A SIN TO NOT HELP PEOPLE
WHO NEED HELP BUT IT'S A SIN TO
HELP PEOPLE WHO DO NEED TO HELP
HELP PEOPLE WHO DO NEED
TO HELP THEMSELVES.
THEMSELVES. >> Ifill:
HELPING PEOPLE WHO
>> Ifill: HELPING PEOPLE WHO
NEED HELP, DOES THAT EXTEND TO
PUTTING BOOTS ON THE GROUND TO
PUTTING BOOTS ON THE
GROUND TO FIGHT I.S.I.S.?
FIGHT I.S.I.S.? >> LOOK,
I.S.I.S. REPRESENTS
>> LOOK, I.S.I.S. REPRESENTS
ANOTHER THREAT, IN MY OPINION,
TO THE PRINCIPLES THAT WE
RESPECT IN WESTERN CIVILIZATION.
LET ME SAY A COUPLE OF THINGS.
FIRST OF ALL, I.S.I.S., THEY'RE
LIARS, MURDERS, RAPISTS.
LIARS, MURDERS, RAPISTS. WE
SAW THE ARTICLES RECENTLY
WE SAW THE ARTICLES RECENTLY
ABOUT WHAT THEY DO.
ABOUT WHAT THEY DO. THEN
THEY ARGUE TO PEOPLE, IF
THEN THEY ARGUE TO PEOPLE, IF
YOU COME HERE YOU WILL BE WITH
FRIENDS, A PART OF OUR FAMILY
AND FIND A WAY TO PARADISE.
IT'S ALL A LIE, IT'S ALL
IT'S ALL A LIE,
IT'S ALL CONTRIVED.
CONTRIVED. WE HAVE TO
KILL I.S.I.S. ON THE
WE HAVE TO KILL I.S.I.S. ON THE
BATTLEFIELD, AND HAVE TO WIN THE
BATTLE OF IDEAS GOING FORWARD.
PEOPLE IN WESTERN CIVILIZATION
HAVE TO RECOGNIZE VALUE MATTERS.
>> Ifill: DO YOU THINK THE
ISSUE EXTENDS TO BOOTS ON THE
ISSUE EXTENDS TO
BOOTS ON THE GROUND?
GROUND? >> YES, WIPE
THEM OUT, DEGRADE
>> YES, WIPE THEM OUT,
DEGRADE THEM, KILL THEM.
THEM, KILL THEM. I'VE
SAID THAT FOR MONTHS.
I'VE SAID THAT FOR MONTHS.
I WOULD LIKE TO GO IN A
I WOULD LIKE TO GO
IN A COALITION.
COALITION. I WOULDN'T
WANT TO GO ALONE.
I WOULDN'T WANT TO GO
ALONE. WE HAVE HAD, GWEN, A
WE HAVE HAD, GWEN, A
DETERIORATING RELATIONSHIP WITH
DETERIORATING RELATIONSHIP
WITH OUR ALLIES.
OUR ALLIES. YOU KNOW,
LOOK, I SERVED ON
YOU KNOW, LOOK, I SERVED ON
ARMED SERVICES FOR 18 YEARS AND
STAYED IN TOUCH WITH MANY PEOPLE
IN NATIONAL SECURITY, AND YOU
THINK ABOUT -- I'LL GIVE YOU ONE
GOOD EXAMPLE, THEY KILL THESE
PEOPLE OVER THERE IN PARIS IN
THAT MAGAZINE, THEY HAVE A
MILLION PEOPLE AT A CEREMONY
MOURNING THE LOSS OF THOSE
PEOPLE, AND WE DON'T SEND A
PEOPLE, AND WE DON'T SEND
A HIGH-LEVEL OFFICIAL?
HIGH-LEVEL OFFICIAL? HOW'S
THAT EVEN POSSIBLE?
HOW'S THAT EVEN POSSIBLE? >>
Ifill: I WANT TO END THIS
>> Ifill: I WANT TO END THIS
BY ASKING YOU TO TAKE STOCK OF
BY ASKING YOU TO TAKE STOCK
OF THIS CAMPAIGN AS IT STANDS
THIS CAMPAIGN AS
IT STANDS TODAY.
TODAY. HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN THE
HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN THE
EXCITEMENT IN AUGUST -- IT'S
AUGUST, EARLY -- FOR THE DONALD
TRUMPS OF THE WORLD, FOR
OUTSIDERS, FOR THE PEOPLE WHO
SEEM LIKE THEY'RE NOT --
SEEM LIKE THEY'RE NOT -- >>
I TOTALLY UNDERSTAND THAT
>> I TOTALLY UNDERSTAND THAT
BECAUSE I THINK PEOPLE ARE
FRUSTRATED WITH DYSFUNCTION, NOT
JUST DYSFUNCTION IN GOVERNMENT,
BUT A LOT OVERDYSFUNCTION THAT
BUT A LOT OVERDYSFUNCTION
THAT SURROUNDS THEM.
SURROUNDS THEM. I GET THE
FRUSTRATION WITH DRUGS
I GET THE FRUSTRATION WITH DRUGS
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD OR MY KIDS
WITH BIG COLLEGE LOANSAN'T C
FIND A GORKS BUT PEOPLE DON'T
WANT TO STAY TON PESSIMIST SIDE.
THEY WANT YOU TO RECOGNIZE THERE
IS A PROBLEM AND THEN FIX IT.
FOR ME, THE TIME I HAVE BEEN IN
GOVERNMENT, I PRODUCED RESULTS.
THINK ABOUT IT -- WHEN I LEFT
THINK ABOUT IT -- WHEN I
LEFT WASHINGTON OF THE CHIEF
WASHINGTON OF THE CHIEF
ARCHITECT TO HAVE THE BUDGET
AGREEMENT WE HAD A TRILLION
AGREEMENT WE HAD A
TRILLION SURPLUS.
SURPLUS. I WAS
INVOLVED IN DEFENSE
I WAS INVOLVED IN
DEFENSE REFORM.
REFORM. WE'VE GONE
FROM IN THE HOLE TO A
WE'VE GONE FROM IN THE HOLE TO A
SURPLUS, GROWN IN JOBS, CUT TAX
MORE THAN ANY SITTING GOVERNOR
IN THE COUNTRY AND PEOPLE WHO'VE
LIVED IN THE SHADOWS ARE GETTING
LIVED IN THE SHADOWS
ARE GETTING ATTENTION.
ATTENTION.
YOU HAVE TO HAVE SOLUTIONS AND
YOU HAVE TO SHOW PEOPLE YOU HAVE
YOU HAVE TO SHOW PEOPLE YOU
HAVE A RECORD OF ACHIEVEMENT.
A RECORD OF ACHIEVEMENT.
PEOPLE DON'T WANT ANY MORE
PROMISES, THEY WANT TO KNOW IT'S
PROMISES, THEY WANT TO
KNOW IT'S GOING TO HAPPEN.
GOING TO HAPPEN. THEY
WANT TO KNOW THAT YOU CAN
THEY WANT TO KNOW THAT YOU
CAN DELIVER THE MAIL.
DELIVER THE MAIL. >>
Ifill: GOVERNOR JOHN
>> Ifill: GOVERNOR JOHN
KASICH, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> GOOD TO SEE YOU AGAIN.
>> GOOD TO SEE YOU
AGAIN. THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. FOOD AND
DRUG ADMINISTRATION HAS APPROVED
THE FIRST-EVER PRESCRIPTION DRUG
TO TREAT WOMEN SUFFERING FROM A
TO TREAT WOMEN SUFFERING FROM
A LACK OF SEXUAL DESIRE.
LACK OF SEXUAL DESIRE. THE
OVERNIGHT ANNOUNCEMENT CAME
THE OVERNIGHT ANNOUNCEMENT CAME
ON THE HEELS OF A LONG AND
CONTENTIOUS DEBATE ON WHETHER TO
CONTENTIOUS DEBATE ON WHETHER
TO BRING THE DRUG TO MARKET.
BRING THE DRUG TO MARKET. >>
Reporter: THE SMALL PINK PILL
>> Reporter: THE SMALL PINK PILL
KNOWN AS ADDYI AIMS TO TREAT A
LOW OR ABSENT DESIRE FOR SEX--
MEDICALLY TERMED HYPOACTIVE
SEXUAL DESIRE DISORDER-- OR
SEXUAL DESIRE
DISORDER-- OR H.S.D.D.
H.S.D.D. IT'S THE
MOST COMMON SEXUAL
IT'S THE MOST COMMON SEXUAL
DYSFUNCTION IN WOMEN.
DYSFUNCTION IN WOMEN. >>
WE LOOKED TO THE EVIDENCE,
>> WE LOOKED TO THE EVIDENCE,
AND WE LISTENED TO PATIENTS.
AND WE LISTENED TO PATIENTS. AND
WHAT WE KNOW IS THAT ONE IN
AND WHAT WE KNOW IS THAT ONE IN
TEN WOMEN SUFFER FROM H.S.D.D.
>> Reporter: MAKER, SPROUT
PHARMACEUTICALS, WELCOMED FDA
APPROVAL LAST NIGHT AT COMPANY
OFFICES IN RALEIGH, NORTH
OFFICES IN RALEIGH,
NORTH CAROLINA.
CAROLINA. >> AND WE
HAVE ALWAYS BELIEVED
>> AND WE HAVE ALWAYS BELIEVED
THAT, PROVIDED THE F.D.A. FINDS
A TREATMENT TO BE SAFE AND
EFFECTIVE, WOMEN DESERVE TO MAKE
THAT CHOICE WITH THEIR HEALTH-
THAT CHOICE WITH THEIR
HEALTH- CARE PROVIDER.
CARE PROVIDER. >> Reporter:
FOR YEARS, VIAGRA,
>> Reporter: FOR YEARS, VIAGRA,
CIALIS AND OTHER DRUGS FOR MEN
HAVE DOMINATED THE MARKET.
HAVE DOMINATED THE MARKET. THEY
INCREASE BLOOD FLOW AND ARE
THEY INCREASE BLOOD FLOW AND ARE
DESIGNED TO BE TAKEN SHORTLY
DESIGNED TO BE TAKEN
SHORTLY BEFORE SEX.
BEFORE SEX. BY CONTRAST,
ADDYI WORKS BY
BY CONTRAST, ADDYI WORKS BY
GRADUALLY ADJUSTING LEVELS OF
SEROTONIN AND DOPAMINE IN THE
BRAIN, CHEMICALS THAT AFFECT
BRAIN, CHEMICALS THAT
AFFECT SEXUAL DESIRE.
SEXUAL DESIRE. IT MUST
BE TAKEN DAILY FOR WEEKS
IT MUST BE TAKEN DAILY FOR
WEEKS TO SEE ANY BENEFIT.
TO SEE ANY BENEFIT. AND,
EVEN THEN, WOMEN MAY SEE
AND, EVEN THEN, WOMEN MAY SEE
ONLY MODEST IMPROVEMENT.
ONLY MODEST IMPROVEMENT. THE
NEWLY APPROVED MEDICATION
THE NEWLY APPROVED MEDICATION
WILL ALSO COME WITH THE MOST
SERIOUS WARNING ALLOWED.
SERIOUS WARNING ALLOWED. >>
ALL DRUGS HAVE RISKS AND WE
>> ALL DRUGS HAVE RISKS AND WE
WANT TO APPROPRIATELY INFORM
WANT TO APPROPRIATELY
INFORM CONSUMERS OF RISKS.
CONSUMERS OF RISKS. SO
WE DO HAVE A BLACK BOX
SO WE DO HAVE A
BLACK BOX WARNING.
WARNING. IT'S RELATED
TO LOW BLOOD
IT'S RELATED TO LOW BLOOD
PRESSURE AND/OR FAINTING WITH
PRESSURE AND/OR FAINTING
WITH ALCOHOL USE.
ALCOHOL USE. >>
Reporter: THE FDA TWICE
>> Reporter: THE FDA TWICE
REJECTED ADDYI IN THE PAST,
POINTING TO SIDE EFFECTS AND
MARGINAL EFFECTIVENESS.
MARGINAL EFFECTIVENESS. BUT
NOW THE FEMALE LIBIDO PILL
BUT NOW THE FEMALE LIBIDO PILL
WILL HIT THE MARKET IN MID-
WILL HIT THE MARKET
IN MID- OCTOBER.
OCTOBER. >> Woodruff:
FOR A CLOSER LOOK
>> Woodruff: FOR A CLOSER LOOK
AT THE NEW LIBIDO PILL AND AT
SOME OF THE BACK AND FORTH
BEHIND IT'S APPROVAL WE TURN TO
BEHIND IT'S APPROVAL WE TURN
TO TWO PHYSICIANS WHO FOCUS ON
TWO PHYSICIANS WHO FOCUS ON
WOMEN'S HEALTH ISSUES: DR.
ADRIANE FUGH-BERMAN, ASSOCIATE
PROFESSOR OF PHARMACOLOGY AND
PHYSIOLOGY AT GEORGETOWN
UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER.
SHE IS ALSO DIRECTOR OF
"PHARMEDOUT," GROUP THAT TRACKS
"PHARMEDOUT," GROUP THAT
TRACKS PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY
PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY
MARKETING PRACTICES.
MARKETING PRACTICES. AND
DR. MARY JANE MINKIN A
AND DR. MARY JANE MINKIN A
PRACTICING OBSTETRICIAN-
GYNECOLOGIST AT YALE MEDICAL
GROUP, AND CLINICAL PROFESSOR AT
THE YALE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF
THE YALE UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE.
MEDICINE. WE WELCOME YOU BOTH.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH. DR.
MINKIN, WHO ARE THE WOMEN
DR. MINKIN, WHO ARE THE WOMEN
THIS DRUG IS DESIGNED FOR?
>> THIS DRUG IS DESIGNED FOR
WOMEN WHO HAVE -- THE FANCY TERM
IS HYPOACTIVE SEXUAL DESIRE
IS HYPOACTIVE SEXUAL
DESIRE DISORDER.
DISORDER. WOMEN WHO
REALLY DON'T HAVE AN
WOMEN WHO REALLY DON'T HAVE
AN INTEREST IN HAVING SEX IS
INTEREST IN HAVING SEX IS
BASICALLY THE SIMPLE WAY OF
THINKING ABOUT IT, AND THIS DRUG
THINKING ABOUT IT, AND THIS
DRUG IS AIMED FOR WOMEN WHO ARE
IS AIMED FOR WOMEN WHO
ARE PRE-MENOPAUSAL, NOT
PRE-MENOPAUSAL, NOT
POST-MENOPAUSAL WOMEN, YOUNGER
POST-MENOPAUSAL
WOMEN, YOUNGER WOMEN.
WOMEN. >> Woodruff:
WHAT EXACTLY DOES
>> Woodruff: WHAT
EXACTLY DOES IT DO?
IT DO? HOW IS IT DIFFERENT?
HOW IS IT DIFFERENT? WE JUST
MENTIONED THIS, BUT HOW
WE JUST MENTIONED THIS, BUT HOW
IS IT DIFFERENT FROM THE DRUGS
DESIGNED FOR MEN LIKE VIAGRA?
>> FIRST OF ALL, I WISH WE KNEW
EXACTLY HOW IT WORKS BECAUSE THE
EXACTLY HOW IT WORKS BECAUSE
THE CHEMISTRY IS TRICKY.
CHEMISTRY IS TRICKY.
BASICALLY, THIS DRUG WORKS AT
CENTRAL EFFECT IN THE BRAIN
AFFECTING SEROTONIN AND DOP DOPE
AFFECTING SEROTONIN AND
DOP DOPE ACTIVITY.
ACTIVITY. IT'S DIFFERENT
THAN VA VIE AGO -
IT'S DIFFERENT THAN
VA VIE AGO - VIAGRA.
VIAGRA. THOSE ARE
PERFORMANCE DRUGS, NOT
THOSE ARE PERFORMANCE DRUGS,
NOT SO MUCH A DESIRE DRUG.
SO MUCH A DESIRE DRUG. >>
Reporter: YOU TELL US YOU
>> Reporter: YOU TELL US YOU
PLAN TO PRESCRIBE THE DRUG FOR
PLAN TO PRESCRIBE THE DRUG
FOR SOME OF YOUR PATIENTS?
SOME OF YOUR PATIENTS? >> I
DO PLAN ON PRI SCRIBING IT
>> I DO PLAN ON PRI SCRIBING IT
UNDER PROPRIETARY CIRCUMSTANCES
WITH PROPRIETARY COUNSELING AND
RULING OUT OTHER THINGS GOING ON
SAYING RIGHT, THIS IS THE RIGHT
THING TO TRY AND WE'LL TRY IT.
>> Woodruff: DR. FUGH-BERMAN,
IN AN INTERVIEW, YOU SAID THIS
IS A DRUG THAT'S USELESS AND
IS A DRUG THAT'S USELESS
AND EVEN DANGEROUS.
EVEN DANGEROUS.
WHAT DID YOU MEAN?
WHAT DID YOU MEAN? >> THIS
DRUG CAN CAUSE SUDDEN
>> THIS DRUG CAN CAUSE SUDDEN
UNCONSCIOUSNESS AND ALSO A VERY
DANGEROUSLY LOW BLOOD PRESSURE,
NAUSEA, SEDATION, BUT THE SUDDEN
UNCONSCIOUSNESS THAT REQUIRES
MEDICAL INTERVENTION IS VERY
MEDICAL INTERVENTION
IS VERY WORRISOME.
WORRISOME. PEOPLE IN
CLINICAL TRIALS ARE
PEOPLE IN CLINICAL TRIALS ARE
HEALTHIER THAN PEOPLE IN THE
HEALTHIER THAN PEOPLE IN
THE GENERAL POPULATION.
GENERAL POPULATION. ONCE THE
DRUG GETS OUT THERE AND
ONCE THE DRUG GETS OUT THERE AND
IS STARTING TO BE USED BY WOMEN
WITH MEDICAL PROBLEMS OR WOMEN
ON MULTIPLE MEDICATIONS, I THINK
WE'LL SEE AN EPIDEMIC OF ADVERSE
WE'LL SEE AN EPIDEMIC
OF ADVERSE EFFECTS.
EFFECTS. IT'S A BIG INTERACTER.
IT'S A BIG INTERACTER. IT
INTERACTS WITH ALCOHOL, THE
IT INTERACTS WITH ALCOHOL, THE
BIRTH CONTROL PILL AND MANY
BIRTH CONTROL PILL AND
MANY COMMON MEDICATIONS.
COMMON MEDICATIONS. >>
Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING EVEN
THOUGH DOCTORS WILL LOOK AT
EVEN THOUGH DOCTORS WILL LOOK AT
WHO SHOULD BE TAKING IT, YOU'RE
SAYING YOU SHOULD EXPECT THERE
SAYING YOU SHOULD EXPECT
THERE TO BE PROBLEMS.
TO BE PROBLEMS. >> YES,
AND DOCTORS HAVE BEEN
>> YES, AND DOCTORS HAVE BEEN
QUOTED IN THE MEDIA SAYING THEY
QUOTED IN THE MEDIA SAYING
THEY ARE GOING TO USE IT IN
ARE GOING TO USE IT IN
POST-MENOPAUSAL WOMEN AND WILL
GIVE IT TO WOMEN WHO ARE CASUAL
DRINKERS, AND YOU ARE ABSOLUTELY
NOT SUPPOSED TO USE ALCOHOL WITH
THIS PILL, WHICH SACKSLY I -- WS
THIS PILL, WHICH SACKSLY I
-- WS ACTUALLY UNREASONABLE.
ACTUALLY UNREASONABLE. YOU'RE
TAKING THIS PILL EVERY
YOU'RE TAKING THIS PILL EVERY
DAY AND WOMEN REALLY ARE NEVER
GOING TO HAVE A DRINK AGAIN IF
GOING TO HAVE A DRINK
AGAIN IF THEY TAKE THIS?
THEY TAKE THIS? >>
Woodruff: JUST THINKING
>> Woodruff: JUST THINKING
ABOUT THE POPULATION OF WOMEN
ABOUT THE POPULATION OF
WOMEN YOU SAID YOU MIGHT BE
YOU SAID YOU MIGHT BE
PRESCRIBING IT TO WHO ARE
PRE-MENOPAUSAL, WHAT ABOUT THE
PRE-MENOPAUSAL, WHAT ABOUT
THE ISSUE OF ALCOHOL?
ISSUE OF ALCOHOL? HOW DO
YOU THINK ABOUT THAT?
HOW DO YOU THINK ABOUT THAT?
>> ADRIANE IS CORRECT, IT'S A
>> ADRIANE IS CORRECT, IT'S
A CONCERN AND, OBVIOUSLY,
CONCERN AND, OBVIOUSLY,
CERTAINLY WOMEN WHO ARE
SIGNIFICANT ALCOHOL CONSUMERS
SHOULD NOT EVEN THINK ABOUT
TAKING THIS MEDICATION.
TAKING THIS MEDICATION. AS
FAR AS IT'S NOT SUPPOSED TO
AS FAR AS IT'S NOT SUPPOSED
TO BE USED IN THE PRESENCE OF
BE USED IN THE PRESENCE OF
ALCOHOL AND SOMEBODY HAS TO BE
READY TO SAY I'M NOT GOING TO
READY TO SAY I'M NOT GOING
TO DRINK, AND THAT'S A BIG
DRINK, AND THAT'S A BIG
COMMITMENT, UNDERSTANDABLY.
COMMITMENT, UNDERSTANDABLY. THE
DRUG, ALSO, IS SUPPOSED TO
THE DRUG, ALSO, IS SUPPOSED
TO BE TAKEN AT NIGHT.
BE TAKEN AT NIGHT. IF THERE
ARE INSOMNIA ISSUES, IT
IF THERE ARE INSOMNIA ISSUES, IT
SHOULD BE TAKEN AT NIGHT BECAUSE
IT WOULD BE LESS OF AN ISSUE.
THESE ARE CONCERNS WE DISCUSS
THESE ARE CONCERNS WE
DISCUSS WITH THE PATIENTS.
WITH THE PATIENTS. >>
Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THE
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT
THE CONCERN IT CAUSES
CONCERN IT CAUSES
UNCONSCIOUSNESS?
UNCONSCIOUSNESS? >> IT'S
CERTAINLY NOT A COMMON
>> IT'S CERTAINLY NOT A COMMON
EFFECT I HAVE BEEN AWARE OF.
>> Woodruff: HOW WIDESPREAD,
DR. FUGH-BERMAN, YOU SAIDU'VE
ALREADY SEEN SOME DOCTORS WILL
ALREADY SEEN SOME DOCTORS
WILL PRESCRIBE IT OUTSIDE THE
PRESCRIBE IT OUTSIDE THE
PARAMETERS OF WHAT'S SUPPOSED TO
BE, HOW WIDESPREAD DO YOU THINK
BE, HOW WIDESPREAD DO YOU
THINK THOUS MAY END UP BEING?
THOUS MAY END UP BEING?
>> GREAT QUESTION.
>> GREAT QUESTION. I'M NOT
SURE THERE IS EVER BEEN
I'M NOT SURE THERE IS EVER BEEN
A DRUG THAT'S COME ON THE MARKET
THAT HAS SUCH NAME RECOGNITION,
ALREADY, THAT THERE IS SUCH HYPE
ALREADY, THAT THERE IS SUCH
HYPE AROUND THIS DRUG, THAT WAS
AROUND THIS DRUG, THAT WAS
REALLY MANUFACTURED BY THE
COMPANY, THAT THIS IS A DRUG
THAT'S BEEN APPROVED BY A PUBLIC
THAT'S BEEN APPROVED BY A
PUBLIC RELATIONS CAMPAIGN.
RELATIONS CAMPAIGN. >>
Woodruff: AND IN THAT
>> Woodruff: AND IN THAT
CONNECTION -- SOUNDS LIKE YOU
WERE SAYING IT'S A MISTAKE FOR
THE FDA TO HAVE APPROVED IT.
THE FDA TO HAVE
APPROVED IT. >> IT IS.
>> IT IS. THIS DRUG
IS VERY EFFECTIVE IF
THIS DRUG IS VERY EFFECTIVE IF
IT'S EFFECTIVE AT ALL BECAUSE
ITS EFFECT MAY BE DUE TO THE
ITS EFFECT MAY BE DUE
TO THE SEDATIVE EFFECT.
SEDATIVE EFFECT. IT'S AS
SEDATING AS FOUR DRINKS.
IT'S AS SEDATING AS FOUR DRINKS.
>> Woodruff: DR. MINKIN, HOW
MUCH DOES THAT GIVE YOU PAUSE AS
SOMEWHOWN MAY BE -- AS SOMEONE
WHO MAY BE PRESCRIBING IT?
>> IT MAKES YOU THINK ABOUT
DOING SIGNIFICANT COUNSELING
WITH THE PATIENT AS FAR AS USE
AND CALLING IF SHE HAS ANY SIDE
AND CALLING IF SHE HAS
ANY SIDE EFFECTS.
EFFECTS. THE MOST
IMPORTANT THING TO ME
THE MOST IMPORTANT THING TO ME
IN PRESCRIBING TO PATIENTS IS I
DON'T WANT WOMEN THINKING THIS
DON'T WANT WOMEN THINKING
THIS IS A CURE-ALL.
IS A CURE-ALL. OH, I
DON'T WANT TO HAVE SEX,
OH, I DON'T WANT TO HAVE SEX,
THIS IS GOING TO MAKE ME WANT TO
THIS IS GOING TO MAKE
ME WANT TO HAVE SEX.
HAVE SEX. THIS IS NOT
A CURE FOR A LOUSY
THIS IS NOT A CURE FOR
A LOUSY RELATIONSHIP.
RELATIONSHIP. IF
YOU HAVE A LOUSY
IF YOU HAVE A LOUSY
RELATIONSHIP, FIX THE
RELATIONSHIP OR GET OUT OF IT,
BUT THIS IS NOT THE ANSWER OR
BUT THIS IS NOT
THE ANSWER OR IT.
IT. THIS IS A SELECTIVE USE FOR
THIS IS A SELECTIVE USE FOR
PEOPLE WHO ARE SELECTED FOR THIS
PARTICULAR INDICATION AND IT'S
NOT A CURE-ALL BY ANY MEANS.
NOT A CURE-ALL BY ANY MEANS. >>
THAT'S A REALLY GREAT POINT.
>> THAT'S A REALLY GREAT POINT.
WHAT WE WERE TALKING ABOUT IS AN
IMBALANCE INLIBI DO BETWEEN TWO
PARTNERS AND I THINK WE NEED TO
QUESTION WHY THERE IS SOMETHING
NECESSARILY WRONG WITH A WOMAN
WHO HAS A LOWER LIBIDO THAN HER
WHO HAS A LOWER LIBIDO
THAN HER PARTNER.
PARTNER. THIS IS NOT
-- THERE IS NOT A
THIS IS NOT -- THERE IS NOT A
SCIENTIFIC NORM FOR LIBIDO.
>> Woodruff: ARE YOU GETTING
AT THE QUESTION OF WHY IT'S
TAKEN SO MUCH LONGER TO COME UP
WITH A DRUG LIKE THIS FOR WOMEN
WITH A DRUG LIKE THIS
FOR WOMEN THAN MEN?
THAN MEN? >> IT HASN'T
BEEN FOR WANT OF
>> IT HASN'T BEEN
FOR WANT OF TRYING.
TRYING. VIAGRA DIDN'T
WORK FOR WOMEN AND
VIAGRA DIDN'T WORK FOR WOMEN
AND NEITHER HAVE OTHER DRUGS.
NEITHER HAVE OTHER DRUGS. WOMEN
ARE MORE COMPLICATED THAN
WOMEN ARE MORE COMPLICATED
THAN MEN, WHICH ISN'T NEWS.
MEN, WHICH ISN'T NEWS. >>
Woodruff: I GUESS NONE OF
>> Woodruff: I GUESS NONE OF US
COULD ARGUE WITH THAT, BUT IN
US COULD ARGUE WITH THAT,
BUT IN A GOOD WAY.
A GOOD WAY. >> OF COURSE!
>> OF COURSE! >>
Woodruff: FOR SURE.
>> Woodruff: FOR SURE. DR.
FUGH-BERMAN, THANK YOU VERY
DR. FUGH-BERMAN,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
MUCH. INTEREST MARY
JANE MINKIN, WE
INTEREST MARY JANE MINKIN,
WE THANK YOU BOTH.
THANK YOU BOTH. >> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NEXT: RETHINKING
COLLEGE AND HOW TO CLOSE THE
COLLEGE AND HOW TO CLOSE
THE GRADUATION GAP.
GRADUATION GAP. HIGHER
EDUCATION ADVOCATES SAY
HIGHER EDUCATION ADVOCATES SAY
MANY COLLEGES ARE INCREASING
FINANCIAL AID TO AFFLUENT
FAMILIES WHILE AID TO NEEDY
STUDENTS REMAINS STAGNANT.
TONIGHT, HARI SREENIVASAN
FEATURES ONE COLLEGE THAT HAS
DECIDED TO BUCK THAT TREND.
DECIDED TO BUCK THAT
TREND. CONGRATULATIONS.
CONGRATULATIONS. (APPLAUSE)
(APPLAUSE) >>
Sreenivasan: MIKE IS THE
>> Sreenivasan: MIKE IS THE
FACE OF A NEW COLLEGE BIDDING
FACE OF A NEW COLLEGE
BIDDING WAR.
WAR. HE WAS OFFERED THOUSANDS OF
HE WAS OFFERED THOUSANDS OF
DOLLARS IN MERIT SCHOLARSHIPS AT
SEVERAL UNIVERSITIES EVEN THOUGH
HIS FAMILY WAS WEALTHY ENOUGH TO
HIS FAMILY WAS WEALTHY
ENOUGH TO PAY TUITION.
PAY TUITION. >> MICHAEL
DeAN DeANN DEANDOINI.
>> MICHAEL DeAN DeANN DEANDOINI.
>> Sreenivasan: HE DECIDED TO
>> Sreenivasan: HE DECIDED TO GO
TO PA, OFFERED NO SCHOLARSHIP
GO TO PA, OFFERED NO SCHOLARSHIP
AT ALL, $60,000 FOR FOUR YEARS,
AND HIS FAMILY PAID THE ENTIRE
AND HIS FAMILY PAID THE
ENTIRE AMOUNT ROOM AND BOARD.
AMOUNT ROOM AND BOARD. HE
GRADUATED AND DESPITE THE
HE GRADUATED AND DESPITE THE
HIGH COSTS, HE AND THE FAMILY
SAY THE EDUCATION WAS WORTH THE
SAY THE EDUCATION WAS
WORTH THE INVESTMENT.
INVESTMENT. >> I CAN
LIKELY EXCEL AND PUSH
>> I CAN LIKELY EXCEL AND PUSH
MYSELF AS HARD AS I COULD AND
COME OUT WITH AN AMAZING
COME OUT WITH AN
AMAZING EDUCATION.
EDUCATION. >>
Sreenivasan: EDUCATION
>> Sreenivasan: EDUCATION
EXPERTS SAY A GROWING NUMBER OF
COLLEGE ACE CROSS THE COUNTRY
ARE OFFERING PRECIOUS
SCHOLARSHIP MONEY FOR FAMILIES
WHO CAN ALREADY AFFORD IT.
>> THE CONCEPT OF USING
FINANCIAL AID AS BAIT HAS BEEN
INCREASING, BAIT FOR UPPER
INCREASING, BAIT FOR
UPPER INCOME FAMILIES.
INCOME FAMILIES. >>
ACCORDING TO MICHAEL DANE
>> ACCORDING TO MICHAEL DANE
DANENBURG WITH THE EDUCATION
TRUST, MORE AFFLUENT STUDENTS
MEANS A BETTER BOTTOM LINE FOR
MEANS A BETTER BOTTOM
LINE FOR SCHOOLS.
SCHOOLS. >> COLLEGE
IS KIND OF IN A
>> COLLEGE IS KIND OF IN A
COMPETITIVE MARKET, COMPETITIVE
GAME TO GET HIGH-PAYING
STUDENTS, SO THEY USE FINANCIAL
STUDENTS, SO THEY USE
FINANCIAL AID AS A TOOL.
AID AS A TOOL. BASICALLY
A COLLEGE THAT'S GOT
BASICALLY A COLLEGE THAT'S GOT
$20,000 TO GEV OUT IN FINANCIAL
AID, THEY CAN GET FOUR STUDENTS
WHO PAY $15,0UT POCKET
WHO PAY $15,0UT POCKET AS
AS OPPOSED TO ONE
NEEDY STUDENT WHO
OPPOSED TO ONE NEEDY STUDENT
WHO CAN PAY NOTHING.
CAN PAY NOTHING. >>
Sreenivasan: WHAT COULD
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT COULD
HAVE COST THE COLLEGE $20,000
FOR ONE STUDENT INSTEAD EARNS
FOR ONE STUDENT INSTEAD
EARNS THE COLLEGE $60,000.
THE COLLEGE $60,000. THAT'S
THE PATH FRANKLIN AND
THAT'S THE PATH FRANKLIN AND
MARSHALL COLLEGE IN LANCASTER,
PENNSYLVANIA, WAS ON UNTIL FIVE
YEARS AGO WHEN THE SCHOOL TOOK A
YEARS AGO WHEN THE SCHOOL TOOK
A HARD LOOK AT THE LOW-INCOME
HARD LOOK AT THE LOW-INCOME
STUDENTS THEY WERE EXCLUDING.
PRESIDENT DAN PORTERFIELD.
PRESIDENT DAN PORTERFIELD. >>
THERE WERE AN ENORMOUS NUMBER
>> THERE WERE AN ENORMOUS NUMBER
OF HIGHLY-QUALIFIED STUDENTS
THAT WE WERE NOT ABLE TO ADMIT
BECAUSE WE DIDN'T HAVE ENOUGH
BECAUSE WE DIDN'T HAVE
ENOUGH FINANCIAL AID.
FINANCIAL AID. >>
Sreenivasan: SO FRANKLIN
>> Sreenivasan: SO FRANKLIN
AND MARSHALL DECIDED TO SCRAP
GIVING MONEY TO NON-NEEDY
FAMILIES AND BEGAN INSTEAD TO
OFFER ONLY NEED-BASED AID AND
RECRUIT TALENTED LOW-INCOME
STUDENTS LIKE SOPHOMORE SHELDON.
>> THIS HOUSES OUR FOREIGN
LANGUAGE AND ENGLISH DEPARTMENT
LANGUAGE AND ENGLISH
DEPARTMENT ON CAMPUS.
ON CAMPUS. >> Sreenivasan:
VALEDICTORIAN
>> Sreenivasan: VALEDICTORIAN
OF THE HIGH SCHOOL CLASS, HE
ATTENDED A SCHOOL IN EVERY,
PENNSYLVANIA, WHERE ONLY 20 OF
PENNSYLVANIA, WHERE ONLY 20
OF THE 120 SENIORS WENT ON TO
THE 120 SENIORS
WENT ON TO COLLEGE.
COLLEGE. >> I ALWAYS
KNEW COLLEGE WAS
>> I ALWAYS KNEW COLLEGE WAS
REALLY, REALLY EXPENSIVE AND,
SO, IT WAS SOMETHING THAT MY
PARENTS AND I, LIKE, WE NEVER
PARENTS AND I, LIKE, WE
NEVER REALLY TALKED ABOUT.
REALLY TALKED ABOUT. I'M THE
FIRST PERSON OVER TO GO
I'M THE FIRST PERSON
OVER TO GO TO COLLEGE.
TO COLLEGE. MY GRANDPARENTS
DIDN'T ACTUALLY
MY GRANDPARENTS DIDN'T ACTUALLY
GET TO FINISH HIGH SCHOOL, NONE
OF THEM FINISHED THE SIXTH
OF THEM FINISHED
THE SIXTH GRADE.
GRADE. THAT'S ONE OF
THE BEST THINGS --
THAT'S ONE OF THE BEST THINGS --
>> Sreenivasan: THE TUITION IS
COVERED BY COLLEGE AND FEDERAL
COVERED BY COLLEGE
AND FEDERAL GRANTS.
GRANTS. HE WORKS AS
A CAMPUS TOUR GUIDE
HE WORKS AS A CAMPUS TOUR GUIDE
AND HAS TAKEN OUT $3,000 IN
AND HAS TAKEN OUT
$3,000 IN LOANS.
LOANS. >> DON'T
FEEL CONSTRAINED BY
>> DON'T FEEL CONSTRAINED BY
WHAT YOU'VE DONE IN THE PAST.
IT'S A NEW WORLD ON CAMPUS.
IT'S A NEW WORLD ON CAMPUS. >>
Sreenivasan: WITH A STUDENT
>> Sreenivasan: WITH A STUDENT
POPULATION OF ONLY 2300,
FRANKLIN AND MARSHALL OFFERS THE
INTIMATE ATMOSPHERE PROVIDED BY
SMALL LIBERAL ARTS COLLEGES.
HELPING HIM TO ADJUST TO THE
IDEA THAT A POOR KID FROM A
LOW-PERFORMING HIGH SCHOOL CAN
LOW-PERFORMING HIGH
SCHOOL CAN SUCCEED.
SUCCEED. >> I REALLY
WANT TO GO TO LAW
>> I REALLY WANT TO
GO TO LAW SCHOOL.
SCHOOL. ANYTIME I
MENTION MY GOAL TO MY
ANYTIME I MENTION MY GOAL TO MY
PROFFERS, IT'S NOT A BECAUSE,
IT'S AN OKAY, THIS IS WHAT WE
IT'S AN OKAY, THIS IS WHAT
WE CAN DO TO MAKE IT HAPPEN.
CAN DO TO MAKE IT HAPPEN. NO
ONE EVER LOOKS AT ME AS IF I
NO ONE EVER LOOKS AT ME AS IF I
CAN'T GET TO WHERE I CAN BE.
THEY AUTOMATICALLY ASSUME I CAN
THEY AUTOMATICALLY
ASSUME I CAN DO IT.
DO IT. >> Sreenivasan:
IN MAKING THE
>> Sreenivasan: IN MAKING THE
SWITCH TO NEED-BASED AID AWAY
FROM MERIT CLIPS SCHOLARSHIPS.
FRANKLIN AND MARSHALL'S POLICIES
ARE SIMILAR TO ELITE SCHOOLS.
THEY CUT SPENDING ON FACILITIES
AND ACADEMIC PROGRAMS AND
INCREASED FUNDRAISING.
INCREASED FUNDRAISING. >>
THE CHALLENGE THAT THE
>> THE CHALLENGE THAT THE
COUNTRY IS FACING IS HIGHER
EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT THEIR REVENUE TO
CONCERNED ABOUT THEIR REVENUE
TO SUCH AN EXTENT THAT THEY'VE
SUCH AN EXTENT THAT THEY'VE
BECOME LESS AND LESS FOCUSED ON
THEIR ACADEMIC MISSION AND MORE
AND MORE FOCUSED ON THE BUSINESS
REALITY OF HAVING TO MAKE
REALITY OF HAVING
TO MAKE PAYROLL.
PAYROLL. >> WE'VE
DONE SOME REALLY
>> WE'VE DONE SOME REALLY
INTERESTING THINGS WITH ALL OF
THE SOUND PIECES OF METAL --
>> Sreenivasan: VIRGINIA, WHO
TAUGHT ART AND WRITING FOR 20
TAUGHT ART AND WRITING FOR
20 YEARS SAYS FRANKLIN AND
YEARS SAYS FRANKLIN AND
MARSHALL'S NEW RECRUITS ARE MORE
MARSHALL'S NEW RECRUITS
ARE MORE ENGAGED.
ENGAGED. >> I THINK
WE'RE GETTING BETTER
>> I THINK WE'RE GETTING
BETTER STUDENTS.
STUDENTS. WHO CAN WRITE
BETTER AND REASON
WHO CAN WRITE BETTER AND REASON
BETTER AND THINK BETTER.
BETTER AND THINK BETTER. >>
Sreenivasan: IN TURN, SHE
>> Sreenivasan: IN TURN, SHE
SAYS, FULL-PAYING STUDENTS LIKE
SAYS, FULL-PAYING STUDENTS
LIKE MIKE ALSO BENEFIT.
MIKE ALSO BENEFIT. >> THERE
IS A GREATER POOL OF
>> THERE IS A GREATER POOL OF
STUDENTS, NOT JUST THE ONES WHO
STUDENTS, NOT JUST THE
ONES WHO CAN AFFORD.
CAN AFFORD. >> I'VE MET
STUDENTS FROM ALL OF
>> I'VE MET STUDENTS FROM ALL
OF THE BACKGROUNDS, FROM ALL
THE BACKGROUNDS, FROM ALL
DIFFERENT KINDS OF WEALTH AND
CULTURE I'VE NEVER MET BEFORE.
>> Sreenivasan: HE PLANS TO
PURSUE A JOB IN HIGHER EDUCATION
AND PLANTS TO WORK HERE.
AND PLANTS TO WORK HERE. >>
TO RECRUIT STUDENTS ONLINE
>> TO RECRUIT STUDENTS ONLINE
AND IN PERSON, HELPS STUDENTS TO
LEARN ABOUT COLLEGE OR FIGURE
OUT WHAT THEY WANT IN COLLEGE
AND HELP THEM WITH THE PROCESS.
>> Sreenivasan: DANENBURG SAYS
MORE COLLEGES NEEDS TO FOLLOW
FRANKEN AND MARSHALL'S NEED.
>> FRANKEN AND MARSHALL WAS A
TERRIBLE COLLEGE WHEN IT CAME TO
TERRIBLE COLLEGE WHEN IT
CAME TO ECONOMIC DIVERSITY.
ECONOMIC DIVERSITY. THEY
RECOGNIZED THAT, WITH
THEY RECOGNIZED THAT, WITH
AFRAMED AND DECIDED TO DO
AFRAMED AND DECIDED
TO DO BETTER.
BETTER. IN THREE
YEARS THEY TRIPLED
IN THREE YEARS THEY TRIPLED
THEI LOWR-INCOME AND WORKING
CLASS STUDENT ACCESS AND THAT'S
IMPORTANT FOR AMERICA FOR
STUDENTS LIVE AND WORK IN
DIVERSE ENVIRONMENTS, NEED TORE
EXPERIENCES WITH PEOPLE FROM
EXPERIENCES WITH PEOPLE
FROM DIFFERENT BACKGROUNDS.
DIFFERENT BACKGROUNDS.
>> Sreenivasan: FROM
LANCASTER, PENNSYLVANIA, FOR
THE "NewsHour", I'M HARI
THE "NewsHour", I'M
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
OUR NEWSHOUR SHARES OF THE DAY.
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE
WHICH MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO
WHICH MIGHT BE OF
INTEREST TO YOU, TOO.
YOU, TOO. IT COMES
FROM SAN FRANCISCO
IT COMES FROM SAN FRANCISCO
PUBLIC TV STATION KQED.
PUBLIC TV STATION KQED. A
YOUNG DANCER SHOWS US HOW
A YOUNG DANCER SHOWS US HOW
PERSISTENCE AND TALENT LANDED
HER A POSITION ON ONE OF THE
WORLD'S MOST PRESTIGIOUS STAGES.
WORLD'S MOST
PRESTIGIOUS STAGES.
>> I MISS THE AREA SO MUCH
BECAUSE I'VE GROWN UP HERE AND
HAVE COME TO LOVE IT HERE.
HAVE COME TO LOVE IT HERE. I
AM LEAVING HOME TO JOIN THE
I AM LEAVING HOME TO JOIN THE
BIRMINGHAM ROYAL BALLET.
MY DREAM IS TO BECOME A
PRINCIPAL DANCER ONE DAY, THE
PRINCIPAL DANCER DANCES ALL THE
PRINCIPAL DANCER DANCES
ALL THE MAIN ROLES.
MAIN ROLES. I STILL
HAVE SO MUCH MORE TO
I STILL HAVE SO MUCH MORE TO
DISCOVER ABOUT MY BODY TO REALLY
KNOW WHERE I CAN TAKE IT.
KNOW WHERE I CAN TAKE IT. I
SEE MYSELF AS BEING WITH
I SEE MYSELF AS BEING WITH
OTHERS BECAUSE I WASN'T BORN
WITH A REALLY GOOD BALLET BODY.
A LOT OF DANCERS ARE BORN WITH
AMAZING FEET OR THE LONGEST,
MOST FLEXIBLE LEGS.
MOST FLEXIBLE LEGS. I
WASN'T REALLY BORN WITH TOO
I WASN'T REALLY BORN
WITH TOO MUCH BODY-WISE.
MUCH BODY-WISE.
A LOT OF PEOPLE THINK THERE
SHOULD BE WHITE DANCERS ON THE
STAGE, WHITE DANCERS LOOK THE
BEST, AND BALLET SHOULD START IN
BEST, AND BALLET SHOULD
START IN EUROPE.
EUROPE. RECENTLY, IT
BE'SEN GETTING SO
RECENTLY, IT BE'SEN GETTING SO
MUCH BETTER WITH MISTY COPELAND
BECOMING PRINCIPAL AND ASIAN
DANCERS FROM EVERYWHERE WHO ARE
AMAZING TO COME AND BE WITH THE
AMAZING TO COME AND
BE WITH THE COMPANY.
COMPANY. BEING HALF
JAPANESE AND HALF
BEING HALF JAPANESE AND HALF
EUROPEAN, I HAD TO WORK REALLY
HARD, AND I'VE HAD TO JUST
REALIZE HOW TO WORK WITH IT AND
ALSO HOW TO SHOW OFF WHAT IS
GOOD FOR ME BETTER THAN THE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE THE MOST AMAZING
PEOPLE WHO HAVE THE
MOST AMAZING BODIES.
BODIES. I'M PRETTY
GOOD AT TURN AND
I'M PRETTY GOOD AT TURN AND
WHERE YOU TURN CONSECUTIVELY
WITHOUT COMING DOWN.
I WANT TO REALLY STAY HUMBLE
BECAUSE I THINK THAT'S SO
IMPORTANT AS A DANCER.
IMPORTANT AS A DANCER. I LOVE
HOW BAL BALLERINAS ARE OE
I LOVE HOW BAL
BALLERINAS ARE OE STAGE.
STAGE. I WANT TO MAKE SURE I'M
I WANT TO MAKE SURE
I'M INSPIRING MYSELF.
INSPIRING MYSELF.
>> Woodruff: I WOULD SAY SHE
>> Woodruff: I WOULD
SAY SHE HAS A FUTURE.
HAS A FUTURE. ON THE
"NewsHour" ONLINE, WHY
ON THE "NewsHour" ONLINE, WHY
DEMANDING TOUGHER QUESTIONS WILL
DEMANDING TOUGHER QUESTIONS
WILL ACTUALLY HELP YOU IN A JOB
ACTUALLY HELP YOU
IN A JOB INTERVIEW.
INTERVIEW. IN OUR
"ASK A HEADHUNTER"
IN OUR "ASK A HEADHUNTER"
SERIES, HOW AND WHY TO ANSWER AN
SERIES, HOW AND WHY TO ANSWER
AN EMPLOYER'S MOST CHALLENGING
EMPLOYER'S MOST CHALLENGING
QUESTIONS ON OUR HOME PAGE.
THAT'S ON OUR HOME PAGE.
THAT'S ON OUR HOME PAGE. AND
IN THE LATEST IN OUR RACE
AND IN THE LATEST IN OUR RACE
TODAY SERIES: AN ORGANIZER FOR
"BLACK LIVES MATTER" ON WHY SHE
"BLACK LIVES MATTER" ON WHY
SHE MAY NOT VOTE IN 2016.
MAY NOT VOTE IN 2016. ARIELLE
NEWTON, THE FOUNDER OF
ARIELLE NEWTON, THE FOUNDER OF
"BLACK MILLENNIALS," WRITES OF
RACISM IN THE LIGHT OF POLITICAL
RACISM IN THE LIGHT OF
POLITICAL PARTICIPATION.
PARTICIPATION. ALL THAT
AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEB SITE: pbs.org/newshour.
SITE: pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT. ON
THURSDAY: "DON'T BUY THIS
ON THURSDAY: "DON'T
BUY THIS JACKET."
JACKET." MAKING SENSE
OF ONE COMPANY'S
MAKING SENSE OF ONE COMPANY'S
COUNTER INTUITIVE STRATEGY.
COUNTER INTUITIVE
STRATEGY. I'M GWEN IFILL.
I'M GWEN IFILL. >>
Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
>> Woodruff: AND
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WOODRUFF. JOIN US
ONLINE AND AGAIN HERE
JOIN US ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
TOMORROW EVENING. FOR
ALL OF US AT THE PBS
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.